seed_url: https://www.ifa.gov.et/2025/02/27/dialogue-on-building-long-lasting-partnerships-between-ethiopia-and-its-partners/
final_url: https://www.ifa.gov.et/2025/02/27/dialogue-on-building-long-lasting-partnerships-between-ethiopia-and-its-partners/
title: Dialogue on: Building Long-Lasting Partnerships Between Ethiopia and its Partners: Towards its Strategic Engagement
date: Feb 27, 2025
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
– The Institute of Foreign Affairs (IFA), in partnership with the British Embassy in Ethiopia, hosted a significant conference focused on strengthening strategic engagements between Ethiopia and its international partners. The event highlighted the essential role that these partnerships play in Ethiopia’s ongoing development efforts.
H.E. Jafar Bedru, Executive Director of IFA, emphasized the importance of collaboration, stating that the nations involved are critical partners in Ethiopia’s socio-economic progress. He noted that the support provided over the decades has been instrumental in advancing the country’s development, characterized by resilience, mutual respect, and a shared commitment to progress.
As Ethiopia continues its development journey, the conference served as a platform to enhance ties with international partners, fostering an environment conducive to shared growth and collaboration for the future.
In closing, H.E. Dr. Abdi Zenebe, Deputy Executive Director of IFA, stressed the importance of evolving Ethiopia’s partnerships with countries in Europe and America. He stated, “Ethiopia’s long-standing partnerships, along with its commitment to regional leadership, will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping a future defined by peace, democracy, and development.” He urged that these partnerships must transform into more strategic and dynamic engagements, prioritizing regional integration, self-reliance, and the aspirations of the Ethiopian people, moving beyond aid and dependency towards relationships founded on mutual respect and collective action.
This conference marks a significant step in Ethiopia’s ongoing efforts to build meaningful and sustainable partnerships that will benefit its development trajectory and regional stability.