seed_url: https://www.gadasez.gov.et/joint-statement-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-and-the-federal-democratic-republic-of-ethiopia-on-the-establishment-of-an-all-weather-strategic-partnership/
final_url: https://www.gadasez.gov.et/joint-statement-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-and-the-federal-democratic-republic-of-ethiopia-on-the-establishment-of-an-all-weather-strategic-partnership/
title: Joint Statement of the People's Republic of China and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the Establishment of an All-weather Strategic Partnership - Gada Special Economic Zone
date: 2023-10-23T07:05:46+00:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Joint Statement of the People’s Republic of China and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the Establishment of an All-weather Strategic Partnership
At the invitation of President Xi Jinping, Abi Ahmed Ali, Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, attended the third Belt and Road International Cooperation Summit Forum held in Beijing from October 15 to 21, 2023. During this period, Prime Minister Abi paid an official visit to the People’s Republic of China.
…..
…During the visit, President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China met with Prime Minister Abi of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, and Premier Li Qiang of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China held talks with Prime Minister Abi. In an atmosphere of friendship, honesty and mutual trust, the two sides exchanged in-depth views on bilateral relations and international and regional issues of common concern, and reached a broad consensus. The two countries also signed a number of agreements aimed at deepening China-Egypt friendly cooperation.
…I. The two sides spoke highly of the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership established by the two countries in 2017, and expressed satisfaction with the fruitful results of practical and friendly cooperation between the two countries. The two sides agreed to maintain high-level exchanges, enhance political mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, and better benefit the two peoples. The two sides announced that the existing partnership will be upgraded to an all-weather strategic partnership.
IX. The two sides agree that Chinese-style modernisation will bring new opportunities for cooperation between the two countries, and strengthening pragmatic cooperation and close economic ties is in the fundamental interests of the two peoples. The two sides agreed to further strengthen the balanced and mutually beneficial trade partnership. China is willing to continue to encourage and support the export of Ethiopian products to China, including agricultural and food products, and welcomes the Ethiopian side to use African agricultural products to export to China through the “green channel”.
…X. Both sides agree that industrialisation, agricultural modernisation and talent training are the keys to promoting independent development. The Ethiopian side appreciates the “Supporting African Industrialisation Initiative”, “China’s Plan for Africa’s Agricultural Modernisation Plan” and “China-Africa Talent Training Cooperation Plan” put forward by President Xi Jinping at the China-Africa Leaders Dialogue. China appreciates Ethiopia’s vigourous development of manufacturing industry, investment and development of industrial parks and special economic zones. It is willing to continue to promote investment in Ethiopia, explore cooperation projects such as Yaji Railway Danon, and provide support for the construction of industrial parks and special economic zones in Ethiopia.
Source: Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, October 17