seed_url: https://www.ifa.gov.et/2025/11/29/ethiopias-strategic-survival-economic-drivers-for-sea-access/
final_url: https://www.ifa.gov.et/2025/11/29/ethiopias-strategic-survival-economic-drivers-for-sea-access/
title: Ethiopia’s Strategic Survival: Economic Drivers for Sea Access
date: Nov 29, 2025
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Ethiopia’s departure from the Red Sea in 1993 and the new maritime status—being a landlocked country, has caused significant impacts on its economy in the horn and the Red Sea Region. As some writers argue Ethiopia has been trapped in “geographic prison” for decades with little hope of regaining direct access to the sea. Owing to the landlocked status, Ethiopia became dependent on the ports of neighboring countries for its foreign trade and strategic relations. Consequently, its regional influence diminished, undermining its ability to pursue an assertive foreign policy (Dagnew & Megento, 2024; Mohammed, 2024). This shift marked a transition from strategic autonomy to survival. A country that once had direct access to the sea suddenly became landlocked after three decades of civil war. This development exposed Ethiopia to economic vulnerabilities. Below are some of the economic showcase discussions on how Ethiopia has securitized access to the sea.
1. Context: Ethiopia’s Transition to Landlocked Status
Ethiopia, which had direct access to the sea and used the ports of Massawa and Assab before 1993, became dependent on the ports of newly independent Eritrea. Due to the initially friendly relations between the leaders of the two countries, Ethiopia was allowed to use the Port of Assab for its foreign trade, enjoying a 75% exemption from port fees during the first five years. However, following the outbreak of the Ethio-Eritrean war (1998–2000), Ethiopia lost access to Eritrean ports. Among others asymmetrical trade relations between the two countries (more favored Eritrea) and the demonetization of Ethiopian currency were the main causes for the eventual outbreak of the War. As it was evidenced by Amare and Mohammed (2023), the war was more of economic than anything else:
Although independent nations are expected to trade with hard currencies, Eritrea used the advantage of the currency union to use birr to purchase Ethiopian commodities, includ ing coffee, and export for USD. This negatively affected the Ethiopian trade balance with Eritrea and inevitably produced political repercussions. This means that Ethiopia, as a sov ereign state, did not benefit from the Eritrean trade as there was no monetary value in terms of hard currency…. Although not the immediate cause, the sudden shift in currency eventually led the two countries into full-scale war in the year that followed.
2. Economic Drivers behind the Securitization of Sea Access
2.1   Costs of being land-locked
According to some studies, landlocked countries incur twice the trade costs of their littoral neighbors. Moreover, the economic growth of landlocked countries is, on average, 6% lower than that of their coastal counterparts. Additionally, landlocked countries like Ethiopia have a low Human Development Index (HDI), extreme poverty index and lower Per capita Gross Domestic Product (PCGDP). At the worst cases, least developed landlocked countries have low economic growth as they are dependent on raw material exports, low volume of export products and low competitive trade because of high logistic cost (Begashaw, 2013).  If we compare the HDI for example, Ethiopia’s
HDI(0.497)
is significantly lower than
Kenya’s(0.602)
which aligns with the preposition that landlocked status is lower human development.
2.2 Dependence on Djibouti and Rising Costs
Since the outbreak of the Ethio-Eritrean War in 1998, Ethiopia has conducted 95% of its foreign trade through the Port of Djibouti. Although Port Sudan and Lamu (Kenya) are occasionally used, the Port of Djibouti remains the most viable option for Ethiopia’s external trade due to its proximity to the country’s center and the presence of the Ethio-Djibouti railway line. However, scholars argue that the lack of diversified port access has negative implications for Ethiopia’s economic development. Djibouti has generated substantial revenue from port services, which account for 80% of its total national income. The volume of Ethiopian foreign trade cargo increased to
9.5 million tons in 2025
. To accommodate Ethiopia’s growing demand for port services, the Government of Djibouti offered the Port of Doraleh for Ethiopia’s exclusive use. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that the cost of port services will continue to rise as Ethiopia deepens its reliance on Djibouti’s port infrastructure (Erico, 2023; Begashaw, 2013). According to various sources, Ethiopia pays between $1.5 and $2 billion annually in port fees to Djibouti—nearly one-third of its estimated 2025 export revenue of $5.3 billion (Terefe, 2025).The cost comparison is best expressed by the recent speech of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed “
the amount of money spent on these charges could be used to build the Renaissance Dam every three years.
”  This dependency undermines Ethiopia’s competitive export capacity due to high logistics costs. For example, Ethiopian agricultural exports to the Middle East are more expensive than those from Sudan and other coastal
African countries.
.3 Logistical and Infrastructural Challenges
Djibouti’s reluctance to develop port infrastructures like improving connectivity to and from the railway terminal and the under capacity of the Horizon Oil Terminal to address the growing oil need of Ethiopia threatened the economic security of the country. Beyond this, Djibouti’s insufficient commitment to develop or maintain roads on its side risked the timely arrival of Ethiopian export and import commodities to the port. Furthermore, Ethiopia’s liberalization attempt around Ethiopian Logistic draws tension between Ethiopia and Djiboutian. One of the driving factors for this tension was Ethiopia’s government attempt to privatize the logistics sector owing to inefficiency and monopolistic practices of Ethiopian Shipping and Logistic Service Enterprise (ESLSE). This reform seems to have dissatisfied Djiboutian authorities who had been comfortable with ESLSE for many decades. Unless this grievance cannot be addressed, it poses threats to Ethiopian logistics operators in Djibouti (Terefe, 2025).
Conclusion and recommendation
Ethiopia’s transition from a littoral to a landlocked state witnessed a fundamental shift from strategic autonomy to survival. This has left the country to economic vulnerability, structural dependency and national security risk. Ethiopia’s dependency on the neighboring ports, particularly on Djibouti has caused substantial economic loss—costing $1.5-$ 2 billion port fees and logistics, consuming nearly one-third of its export earnings. Ethiopia’s structural dependency on the port of Djibouti exposed the country to rising costs and undermines its export competitiveness.  To the extreme, Ethiopia’s dependency on a single port might cause security risks like port shutdown that could disrupt commercial and strategic imports. This policy brief recommends that Ethiopia’s long-term economic stability and strategic survival requires moving beyond dependence by achieving secure, diversified, and affordable maritime access.
References
Amare K. Aweke & Mohammed Seid (2023) The Ethiopia–Eritrea rapprochement: highly personalized and less-institutionalised initiative, Third World Quarterly, 44:4, 762-775, DOI: 10.1080/01436597.2022.2158079
Begashaw, G. (2013). Landlockedness as an impediment to economic development in Ethiopia: a framework for a durable solution. Ethiopian e-Journal for Research and Innovation Foresight (Ee-JRIF), 5(1).
Dagnew, S., & Megento, T. L. (2024). Effects of Ethiopia’s landlocked status on ties with its neighbours. African Journal of Political Science, 12(1), 19-30.
Erko, H. G. (2023). Analysing Opportunities and Obstacles in Ethio-Djibouti Relations: Post-Cold War Era Historical Analysis. Current Res. J. Soc. Sci. & Human., 6, 219.
Mohammed Seid Mohammed (20 Apr 2024): The Red Sea Regional Security Complex: The Implications of the Red Sea Forum for Ethiopian National Security, Asian Journal of Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies, DOI: 10.1080/25765949.2024.2343232
Terrefe, B. (2025). Ethiopia’s Red Sea Politics: Corridors, Ports and Security in the Horn of Africa.
About the author
Mohammed Seid (PhD)
, Senior Researchers of the Middle East Affairs Department at the Institute of Foreign Affairs (IFA)
Disclaimer
The content disseminated by the Institute of Foreign Affairs (IFA) – including, but not limited to, publications, public statements, events, media appearances, and digital communications – reflects the views of individual contributors and does not necessarily represent the official positions or policies of the Institute, its partners, or any affiliated governmental or non-governmental entities.
While the IFA endeavors to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and timeliness of the information presented, it makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the completeness, reliability, or suitability of such content for any purpose. The Institute expressly disclaims any liability for errors or omissions, as well as for any actions taken or decisions made based on the information provided.
The inclusion of external links, references, or third-party resources does not constitute an endorsement by the Institute. Additionally, engagement on social media platforms – including, but not limited to, likes, shares, retweets (RTs), or reposts – shall not be interpreted as an endorsement or validation of the views expressed therein.
Readers and audiences are encouraged to exercise critical judgment and seek independent verification when interpreting or relying upon any information disseminated through publications and posts on the Institute’s platforms or representatives.