seed_url: http://www.mom.gov.et/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/MoMP-Guide-APRIL-20202.pdf
final_url: http://www.mom.gov.et/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/MoMP-Guide-APRIL-20202.pdf
title: MoMP-Guide-APRIL-20202.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

1
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Photo by Clay Knight on Unsplash
MINING in
ETHIOPIA
MINISTRY
OF MINES
and PETROLEUM
GUIDE
INVESTOR

2 3
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
1. WELCOME TO OUR MINING INVESTOR GUIDE 5
2. QUICK GUIDE TO ETHIOPIA AS YOUR MINING DESTINATION OF CHOICE 8
3. ETHIOPIA AT A GLANCE 11
 3.1 A soaring economy 16
 3.2 Getting to know the Growth and Transformation Plan II 16
4. REFORMING THE MINING SECTOR 16
 4.1 National Plan for Job Creation 17
5. WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT ETHIOPIA’S MINERALS 19
 5.1 Ethiopia’s geology 21
  5.1.1   About the GSE 22
 5.2   Ethiopia’s mineral potential  22
  5.2.1 Gemstones 25
  5.2.2 Metallic minerals 27
  5.2.3 Industrial minerals 33
 5.3 ASSM in Ethiopia 35
  5.3.1 Ethiopia’s Artisanal, Special and Small-Scale Mining National Strategy  35
  5.3.2 Artisanal mining, employment and the economy  36
  5.3.3 Improving market access and increasing earnings 36
	 	 5.3.4	 Profile	of 	an	artisanal	miner	in	Ethiopia	 36
  5.3.5 Prioritising women in the ASSM sector  36
6. INVESTING IN ETHIOPIA’S MINING SECTOR 38
 6.1 About the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum 39
 6.2 How to apply for a licence 41
 6.3 Mining licence application process 43
 6.4 About Ethiopia’s legal and regulatory framework 43
  6.4.1 Mining legislation and regulations 44
  6.4.2 Tax  45
  6.4.3 Environment 45
  6.4.4 Commercial licencing 45
  6.4.5 Human rights and civil societies 45
  6.4.6 Land use 46
  6.4.7 Labour  46
 6.5 ASSM licencing, legislation and regulations 46
  6.5.1 Licencing 46
  6.5.2 Royalties and taxes 47
 6.6 Environment and safety regulations 47
  6.6.1 Environmental Impact Assessments, rehabilitation fund and
    community development 48
  6.6.2 Environmental Impact Assessments 48
  6.6.3 Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines 49
  6.6.4 Regional Environmental Bureaus 49
  6.6.5 Environmental management guidelines for artisanal miners 50
  6.6.6 Safety regulations 50
  6.6.7 Pollution 50
 6.7 Community engagement 50
  6.7.1 Community development 50
  6.7.2 Overseeing the community development fund 50
 6.8 Fiscal regime 51
  6.8.1 Fiscal incentives 51
  6.8.2 Taxation 52
  6.8.3 Mining operations incentives 52
 6.9 Land allocation 52
7. DOING BUSINESS IN ETHIOPIA  54
 7.1 Ethiopia’s Citizen Charter  55
 7.2 Visiting Ethiopia as an investor  55
 7.3 How to register your business 56
 7.4 Investor protection 59
  7.4.1 Expropriation protection 59
  7.4.2 Dispute settlement 59
  7.4.3 Repatriation of funds 59
 7.5 Trade agreements with other countries and investment treaties 59
8. IMPORTANT AGENCIES AND SUPPORTING INSTITUTIONS 60
 8.1 Ethiopian Mineral, Petroleum and Bio-fuel Corporation 60
 8.2 The Environment, Forest and Climate Change Commission 60
 8.3 The Ethiopian Investment Commission 62
 8.4 Other relevant stakeholder institutions 62
CONTENTS

4 5
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
WELCOME TO OUR
MINING
INVESTOR
GUIDE
ASSM  Artisanal and Small-Scale Miners
CIRDI  Canadian International Resources and Development Institute
COMESA  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CFTA  Continental Free Trade Area
E-EITI  Ethiopia’s Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EFCCC  Environment, Forest and Climate Change Commission
EIA  Environmental Impact Assessment
EIC  Ethiopian Investment Commission
EMDSC  Ethiopian Mineral Development Share Company
EMPBFC  Ethiopian Minerals, Petroleum and Bio-Fuel Corporation
EPA  Environmental Protection Agency
ERCA  Ethiopian Revenues and Customs Authority
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
GoE   Government of Ethiopia
GTP  Growth and Transformation Plan
GSE  Geological Survey of Ethiopia
IGAD  Intergovernmental Authority on Development
MoMA  Memorandum of Agreement
MoMP  Ministry of Mines and Petroleum
MoT  Ministry of Trade
PLC  Private Limited Company
SMEs  Small and Medium Enterprises
SDGs   Sustainable Development Goals
SOP  Sulphur of Potash
SUMM  Supporting the Ministry of Mines Project Ethiopia
TIN	 	 Tax	Identification	Number
VMS	 	 Volcanogenic	Massive	Sulfied
UNDP  United Nations Development Programme
ACRONYMS

6 7
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Ethiopia is the ideal mining destination for
companies looking to invest in a high-potential
mining jurisdiction. With impressive mineral
resources and a government committed to
executing ambitious economic reforms, the
building blocks are in place to create a world-
class mining sector.
This guide is designed to provide the investor with a clear picture of Ethiopia’s
extraordinary mineral resources, their geology, and the nature of the opportunity
for each commodity. It clearly sets out the legal and regulatory frameworks for
mining	and	petroleum	in	Ethiopia.	It	also	outlines	the	different	players	in	Ethiopia’s
mining sector, federal and regional, and their respective roles.
Ethiopia’s mining sector has undertaken a major reform programme in recent
years. The reform is designed to make it easier than ever to invest in Ethiopia,
encourage exploration and mining, and unlock the sector’s full potential and value.
The reform includes geodata management, transparency and ease of licensing
process and the artisanal mining sector among others. Read more about this
important work later in the guide.
The	Ministry	of	Mines	and	Petroleum	(MoMP)	is	the	first	port	of	call	for	all	investors
interested in Ethiopia’s mining and hydrocarbon sectors. The MoMP can direct you
to the most up-to-date geodata available, guide you to the right legislation and
regulations for your business, and help you apply for any licences required. The
MoMP also provides straightforward guidance on how to go about investing in
Ethiopia’s abundant natural resources.
WELCOME TO OUR
MINING
INVESTOR
GUIDE

8 9
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |

ETHIOPIA AS YOUR MINING
DESTINATION OF CHOICE
2
The country covers 1.14 million square kilometres and has a
population of 105 million people, making it Africa’s second-
most populous nation.
Ethiopia has enjoyed international acclaim for its impressive and sustained economic growth and the
visionary political leadership of Nobel Laureate, Prime Minister Dr Abiy Ahmed. Mining reform is high on
Prime Minister Abiy’s agenda, who intends for mining to comprise 10% of the country’s Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) by 2025. To achieve this, the Prime Minister has launched the ‘Homegrown Economic
Reform Agenda’, which seeks to implement the following macroeconomic, sectoral and structural
reforms.
Homegrown economic reform AgendA
MACROECONOMIC
REFORMS
•	 Strengthening	public	sector	finances
•	 Correcting foreign currency imbalances
•	 Controlling	inflation
•	 Safeguarding	financial	stability
•	 Improving	access	to	finance	and	developing	capital	markets
MINING REFORMS
•	 Formalising and supporting artisanal and small-scale mining
•	 Reviewing gold pricing to reduce incentives for illicit trade
•	 Addressing political and legal issues with local communities and
incentivising miners to engage and invest in local communities
•	 Addressing technical and institutional barriers against large-scale mining
projects
•	 Developing policies and institutional capacities to create a sustainable,
inclusive mining sector with strengthened geological information and a
diversified	product	base	with	a	focus	on	industrial	input
A QUICK GUIDE TO
ETHIOPIA
AS YOUR
MINING
DESTINATION
OF CHOICE
02
A QUICK GUIDE TO
2.

10 11
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Ethiopia has a history in mining, dating back to
more than three millennia, especially in gold.
Apart from gold, Ethiopia’s mineral potential
is vast. With known occurrences of more than
30 metallic, industrial, agro- and construction
minerals as well as rare gemstones.
Ethiopia is also home to one of the oldest
geological surveys on the continent, the
Geological Survey of Ethiopia (GSE). Data
provided by the GSE make both exploration and
the	acquisition	of	brownfield	projects	easier	for
investors.

Available maps include:
 Geoscience and hydro-geology
 Airborne geophysics
 Ground gravity
 Engineering geology and geohazard
 Mineral exploration

In	January	2020,	16	public	and	private	offices
signed	an	agreement	to	offer	a	one-stop-shop
service. Key ministries include Revenue, Trade
and Industry, Agriculture, Science and Innovation,
Transport, and Mines and Petroleum (MoMP).
This system is key to increasing Ethiopia’s trade
competitiveness	and	it	will	help	offices	to	deliver
simple,	predictable,	efficient	and	fast	services.	It
will increase revenue and satisfaction of clients,
reduce corruption, bring transparency and
encourage export trade.

The one-stop-shop coordinates and facilitates
access to relevant government directorates
and entities involved in regulatory, registration,
permits and licencing. It aims to ensure that
investors can go to the MoMP (physically or
online) and receive all guidelines, administrative
information and approvals they need to invest
in	the	sector	through	one	office	-	the	Grants	and
International	Cooperation	Office	at	the	Ministry	of
Mines and Petroleum.

The following information is available to
potential investors in the Ethiopian mineral
sector:
 Regulatory environment
 Legal environment and compliance
 Economic environment
 Mining/Petroleum Investment Guide
 Priority sub-sectors, designation and
 localisation
 Environmental Impact Assessment
 Mining/Petroleum licencing and permits
 Investment promotion
 Visa and duty-free process facilitation
 Brokerage with local entrepreneurs in the
 mining sector

The MoMP also launched its newly upgraded
website, which showcases the mineral
development vision for Ethiopia.
The investment policy in Ethiopia is generally
established under the principles and practices of
a free market-driven economy. The government
has	enacted	a	competitive	legal	and	fiscal	regime
that has attracted many local and foreign mining
companies, from exploration through to mining
activities. The government provides a number
of incentives to encourage private investment
and	promote	the	inflow	of	foreign	capital	and
technology into Ethiopia. The incentives are both
fiscal	and	non-fiscal,	covering	customs	duty
exemptions, income tax exemptions and export
incentives provided to both domestic and foreign
investors.
SummAry of proviSionS for inveStorS
LEGISLATIVE
FRAMEWORK AND
FISCAL REGIME
•	 25% corporate tax rate and permits 10 years’ loss carry-forward
•	 Attractive royalties





•	 Formalising and supporting artisanal and small-scale mining
•	 Retention of portions of foreign currency earnings and remittance
of	profits,	dividends,	principal	and	interest	on	a	foreign	loan	out
of Ethiopia
•	 Exemption from customs duties and taxes on equipment,
machinery and vehicles necessary for mining operations
•	 100% cost recovery for companies that successfully engage in
mining operations (Tax Proclamation, Chapter 4)
MINERAL MARKETING Guarantee licencee's right to sell minerals and petroleum products
locally or abroad
DISPUTE RESOLUTION Provide for dispute settlement through negotiation and arbitration
OWNERSHIP
•					55%	government	equity	for	minerals
•					Negotiable	for	petroleum
inveStor incentiveS
MARKET FREEDOM Company or mining licence holder has right to sell minerals
domestically or overseas
COST RECOVERY
•					All	mineral	exploration	or	pre-production	costs	are	100%
      recoverable
•					100%	recoverable	costs	with	a	ceiling	of	65	to	70%
EXEMPTION FROM
CUSTOMS DUTIES
AND TAXES
The mining law provides exemption from customs duties and taxes
on equipment, machinery, vehicles and spare parts necessary for the
mineral operations for mineral and petroleum operations (please refer
to petroleum and mineral laws on customs duties and taxes)
OPENING OF THE
FOREIGN CURRENCY
ACCOUNT IN ETHIOPIA
As per the mining law of the National Bank of Ethiopia, the opening
and operation of a foreign currency account in Ethiopia is guaranteed
1  ABUNDANT MINERAL POTENTIAL
2  ONE-STOP-SHOP 3  INCENTIVES
 -  4% for industrial minerals
 -  5% for metallic minerals
 -  7% for gold
 -   Petroleum royalties are negotiable

12 13
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
energy
The 1,870 MW Gibe III hydropower project, which doubled Ethiopia’s electricity output, was completed in
2016. Ethiopia is also developing what will be Africa’s biggest hydroelectric power plant - the 6,000 MW
Grand Renaissance Dam. This is due for completion in 2022.
rAil
Further expansion is underway with a 656 km rail line connecting Ethiopia to the port of neighbouring
Djibouti.
roAd
Between 2010 and 2015, Ethiopia’s road network more than doubled to reach 110,414 km.

Air
Ethiopian Airlines is Africa’s largest carrier with access to 120 international destinations, and Addis Ababa
airport is now the largest hub on the continent.

Since	2005,	there	have	been	significant	improvements	in	access	to	electricity,	potable	water	and	roads
(see chart below), which is decreasing Ethiopia’s poverty headcount ratio.
ETHIOPIA
AT A
GLANCE
03
4  DELIVERY-ORIENTED GOVERNMENT
Ethiopia is rapidly executing high-value infrastructure
investments, carefully designed to give the mining sector the
space it needs to grow. These investments ensure that mining
companies will have the infrastructure they need to mine at
scale, access global markets, and import production inputs
quickly and smoothly.
150
100
50
0
14
36 36
43
66
121
Access to
electricity
(% of
population)
Length of all-
weather roads
(1000 km)
Access to
potable water
(% of
population)
2005                 2016
2004 2010 2015
39
30
24
IMPACT OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT POVERTY HEADCOUNT RATIO AT
NATIONAL POVERTY LINES (% OF POPULATION)

14 15
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
ETHIOPIA AT A GLANCE
Ethiopia is strategically located in the Horn of Africa, giving it
prime transport links to key export markets.
3.
Ethiopia shares its boundary with the North
and South Sudan on the west, Somalia and
Djibouti on the East, Eritrea on the North
and northwest and Kenya on the South.

SURFACE AREA: 1.14 million km
2
CAPITAL CITY: Addis Ababa
POPULATION: 105 million
GOVERNMENT:
•	 Federal 	Democratic	Republic
•		 9	National 	Regional	States
•		 2	Federally 	Chartered	cities
OFFICIAL LANGUAGE: Amharic
3.1     A GROWING ECONOMY
Ethiopia is considered one of the world’s most
consistently high-performing economies, having
registered an average GDP growth of 9% over the
past decade. Due in large to Ethiopia’s increased
industrial output over that same period, its
performance is planned and documented through
the Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP), now in
its second phase, the GTP II. The country’s state-
led growth and development programme is now
mostly supported by the Homegrown Economic
Reform Agenda (September 2019).

16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
1000
800
600
400

200
0
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
GDP GROWTH (ANNUAL %)               GDP PER CAPITA (CURRENT US$), RHS
GDP PERFORMANCE
3.2     GTP II AND ETHIOPIA’S MINING SECTOR
The GTP II major goal is to realise the national vision of becoming a lower middle-income country by
2025 - achieved by sustaining rapid broad-based and inclusive economic growth, which accelerates
economic transformation.


The GTP II outlines the Government of Ethiopia’s deliberate interventions to increase the mining sector’s
revenues to USD3.7 billion by 2025. This includes strengthening the implementation capacity of the
Ministry and regional states, attracting reputable and competent investors by undertaking international
standard promotion work and funding the provision of reliable geological survey data.
To achieve this, the GoE will drive an import-substitution agenda by developing minerals that can
be used as inputs for local industries and value-addition. Bio-fuel production and promotion of the
downstream petroleum industry will also be prioritised. Reducing environmental impact of the sector will
be central as will setting standards and regulations in fuel extraction, blending, storing, transporting and
distribution processes in the country.

THE PLAN HAS FOUR PILLARS:
1 lower middle-income economy:
To achieve and maintain a real GDP growth
rate of 11% within a stable macroeconomic
environment.

2 regional hub for innovation and
manufacturing:
To develop domestic manufacturing,
engineering and fabrication capacity which will
improve productivity, quality and international
competitiveness. It also seeks to spur structural
transformation to reposition Ethiopia as a
regional leader in technological innovation and
manufacturing.
3 public participation and local ownership:
To build upon and solidify the ongoing public
mobilisation and organised participation. This
is to ensure the Ethiopian public become both
owners	and	beneficiaries	of	the	outcomes	of
Ethiopia’s development.

4 political stability:
To strengthen Ethiopia’s democratic institutions.
Afar
Amhara
Tigray
Somali
Oromia
Benishangul-Gumuz
Gambela
Addis Ababa
Dire Dawa
Southern Nations,
Nationalities and
Peoples
Harar

16 17
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
REFORMING
THE MINING
SECTOR
04
REFORMING
THE MINING SECTOR
THE GoE HAS LAID OUT CLEAR AMBITIONS FOR THE MINING SECTOR:
The Government of Ethiopia has set out a clear “Pathway
to Prosperity” through the new Homegrown Economic
Reform Agenda, enabling Ethiopia to reach the status of
a middle-income country by 2030.
THE REFORM PROGRAMME IS FOCUSED ON:
 1. Implementing strategy and improving policy
 2.  Revising the legal framework
 3.  Developing institutional capacity

 4.  Developing human resources
 5.  Enhancing facilitation through information and technology
4.
US $265 MILLION to US $17 bILLION
US $400 MILLION to US $90 bILLION
200, 000 to 1,6 MILLION
Amount of foreign exchange earned through export and import substitution increasing from
Amount of local income earned from the sector increasing from
US $160 MILLION to US $500 MILLION
Number of FDI companies in the sector increasing from
Number of quality jobs created in the sector organisations, companies and SMEs increasing from

18 19
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Reforms in Ethiopia’s mining sector are well underway. MoMP is already several years into its own
ambitious reform programme.
Strategy 1
 Building a robust policy framework and an
 enabling environment by formalising ASM;

 Providing government support for business
 development;

 Enforcing the existing legal framework to
 promote artisanal miners;

 Improving the ease of access to licences
	 and	finance	for	SMEs,	and	large-scale
 miners working in mining value-addition.
Strategy 2
Improving horizontal and vertical integration in the
mining sector, by:

 Promoting and marketing Ethiopia’s mining
 potential to the international market;
 Improving access of artisanal miners to
 licenced buyers, providing competitive prices
 for gold and similar precious stones;
 Encouraging the formation of Micro, Small
 and Medium Enterprises to aggregate
 artisanal miners’ production;
 Creating incentives for artisanal miners
 supplying to licenced buyers.
Strategy 3
Designing tailor-made skills development
programmes, by:
 Creating a fellowship programme targeting
 professionals in the mining sector;
 Developing SME skills and readiness to
 provide auxiliary services and products to
	 large-scale	firms;
 Integrating training on mineral exploration
 methodologies into business development
 support to formalise SMEs;
 Providing vocational training in value-addition
 practices.
Strategy 4
Designing	and	implementing	innovative	flagship
projects/programmes (for instance - introducing
lease capital for the purchase of equipment) as
part of formalisation support, and support geo-
chemical atlas mapping.
THE CASE FOR MINING SECTOR REFORM FOCUSES ON FIVE AREAS:
INTERVENTION ACTIVITIES UNDERWAY
IMPLEMENTING STRATEGY
AND IMPROVING POLICY
•	 Development of Mineral and National Petroleum Policy
•	 Formalisation of ASSM activities
REVISING THE LEGAL
FRAMEWORK
•	 Review of the Mining Operation Proclamation and Regulations
•	 Review of the Petroleum Operation Proclamation
•	 Review of the Transaction of Precious Minerals Proclamation
DEVELOPING
INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY
•	 Restructuring of Ministry of Mines and Petroleum to improve
coordination between federal and regional mining bureaus,
simplifying licencing process
•	 Establishment of the Mineral Excellence Centre
DEVELOPING HUMAN
RESOURCES
•	 Right-sizing	of	staff	complement	to	attract	and	retain	talent
•	 Partnering with higher education institutions to build capacity
ENHANCING FACILITATION
THROUGH INFORMATION
AND TECHNOLOGY
•	 Operationalisation of a modern and sophisticated cadastre system
•	 Digitisation of existing maps and existing data
Highlights of the MoMP’s progress with reforms since 2016 include:
Completing a substantive review of all legal instruments regulating the mining sector in Ethiopia.
Developing a framework for a Gender Equality and Mainstreaming Strategy to integrate gender
concerns in policies, legislation, strategies, plans and budgets.
Introducing an investor engagement strategy and one-stop-shop mechanism.

Restructuring of organisational levels inside the MoMP and the GSE to meet current industry needs
and enhance service delivery.
Establishing the Mineral Excellence Centre at the MoMP and creating an e-learning/training
platform.
1   Implementing strategy and improving policy
2   Revising the legal framework
3   Developing institutional capacity
Development of a GIS portal and integration of geoscience data into the upgraded national cadastre
system.

Refreshing Ethiopia’s Mineral Development Policy.
Developing Ethiopia’s National Petroleum Policy.
Delivering an ASSM national strategy roadmap, which will see the formalisation of the sector for
better management.
Streamlining federal and regional licences and licencing systems to improve consistency, via
in-depth consultations with the regional mining bureaus.
4.1     NATIONAL PLAN FOR JOB CREATION
Ethiopia’s National Plan for Job Creation (2020–2025) targets mining as a key sector to achieve its goal to
create 14 million jobs by 2025, to absorb the currently unemployed and to ensure that jobs are waiting
for new entrants to the labour market.
Mining has untapped potential in Ethiopia due to several institutional and technical constraints. Strategies
to improve pricing, formalise Artisanal and Small-Scale Miners (ASSM) miners and improve large-scale
miners’ relationships with local communities in the sector are underway to unlock the sector’s potential
for direct and indirect job creation.

20 21
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
5.1    ETHIOPIA’S GEOLOGY
The oldest rocks to be found in Ethiopia are from
late Proterozoic age (900-540Ma), and cover slightly
less than 25% of the country. Mainly, these rocks are
exposed in the northern, western and southern parts
of Ethiopia. A scattering of such rocks, however, can be
also found in Harar in the east.

Ethiopia’s Proterozoic basement sits partly in the
Arabian-Nubian shield that continues north into Sudan,
Egypt and Saudi Arabia and south into the Mozambique
Belt, which comprises much of the geological basement
throughout eastern and southern Africa.
AbOUT
ETHIOPIA’S MINERALS
2
ABOUT
ETHIOPIA’S
MINERALS
05
5.
Ethiopia’s terrain primarily
consists of rocks from
four geological periods:
the Proterozoic, Mesozoic,
Tertiary and Quaternary
periods.
GEOLOGICAL MAP OF ETHIOPIA

22 23
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Mesozoic (251-66Ma) and some slightly older
marine, continental and sedimentary rocks cover
another 25% of the country. These Mesozoic
formations include rocks like sandstone, shale,
limestone and gypsum. Eastern Ethiopia contains
exceptionally large areas of these kinds of rock -
most notably in the Ogaden Basin. There are also
two sedimentary basins in the centre and to the
north of the country.
The remaining 50% of the country is covered
by Tertiary (65 - 2.6Ma) and Quaternary (2.6Ma
- present time) volcanic and sedimentary
rocks. These originate from the formation of
the Ethiopian rift, a subsection of the greater
East African rift. The Ethiopian rift runs from
northeast to southwest across Ethiopia. As such,
the Ethiopian highlands are underlain mainly
by	thick	sequences	of	flood	basalt	that	erupted
65-13 million years ago, while the rift valley
itself is covered mainly by Quaternary (<2.6Ma)
volcanic rocks and associated sedimentary rocks.
Quaternary sediments also occur in other parts of
the country and tertiary sediments in the far east.
5.1.1  About the GSE
The Geological Survey of Ethiopia (GSE) is an
autonomous institution, with accountability
to the MoMP. It is responsible for carrying out
basic geological mapping, mineral exploration
and related geological activities. The GSE also
provides services such as data dissemination,
and drilling and laboratory analysis.

The GSE was stablished in 1968 as a department,
becoming autonomous in 1982 as the Ethiopian
Institute of Geological Surveys (EIGS), before
finally	being	established	in	its	current	form	in
2000. The GSE has completed a geological
and hydro-geological mapping at a scale of
1:250000,	for	the	entire	country,	and	identified
several targets for metallic, industrial, energy
and construction minerals. This work provides
the critical foundation for mineral exploration and
mining development projects in Ethiopia. The GSE
also plays a role in developing critical skills in the
field	of	geo-science.

We invite you to visit the GSE’s Data Catalogue
online where you can find the following
information:
 High-quality geological maps at 1:2000000
 scale (100% complete);
 Ground gravity maps at 1:500000 scale
 (100% complete);
 Geoscience and hydro-geology maps at
 1:250000  scale (100% complete);
 Engineering geology and geohazard
 mapping at 1:250000 (50.54% complete as
 of end 2019);
 Airborne geophysics maps (30% complete
 as of end 2019);
 Mineral exploration maps at various scales.
The GSE is working to improve the quality of data
it can make available to investors. Under the
GTP II, the GSE aims to achieve the following by
2025:
 To increase its airborne geophysics survey
 coverage from 30% to 100%;
 To increase its geohazard study coverage
 (at a scale of 1:250,000) from the current 42%
 to 100%;
 To make rapid progress mapping the whole
 country at a scale of 1:100,000 (The GSE
 has completely mapped Ethiopia at a scale
 of 1:250,000);
 To geochemically map the entire country at
 a scale of 1:1,000,000 scale and provide a
 Global Geochemical Baseline
.
5.2      ETHIOPIA’S MINERAL POTENTIAL

Ethiopia has known occurrences of more than 30
minerals. These include:
 Metallic minerals (gold, platinum, iron, nickel,
 chromite and base metals);
 Energy minerals (lithium, graphite, tantalum
 and coal);
 Cement raw minerals (limestone, gypsum,
 clay, pumice);
 Fertiliser raw minerals (potash and phosphate);
 Ceramics raw minerals (kaolin, feldspar);
 Glass raw minerals (silica sand);
 Dimension stones (marble, granite,
 limestone, sandstone, diatomite, bentonite,
 soda ash, salt, graphite and sulphur);
 Gemstones (opals, emeralds, sapphires).
Detailed information and maps of Ethiopia’s mineral potential
are available on the MoMP website. The meta data of the
mineral exploration reports, conducted by GSE and foreign
exploration companies, can be obtained from GSE’s meta data
catalogue that is available online at: http:/ /catalog.gse.gov.et/
gsemdportal/srv/eng/catalog.search#/home
More interactive maps on the geology and mineral potential of
Ethiopia will become available soon on GSE’s portal at:
http:/ /gis.gse.gov.et/geoportal/home/gallery
html#c=organization&o=modified
Pdf reports and various format maps will be available for
download from: http:/ /repository.gse.gov.et/home/
The mining cadastre portal has an updated 1:2,000,000 scale
geological map of Ethiopia and mineral occurance points along
with the various licences operated in the country. More updated
geological maps at 1:250,000 scale and updated mineral points
will be available soon on the dynamic map at: https:/ /ethiopian.
portal.miningcadastre.com/MapPage.aspx?PageID=a16a9300-
7c58-4f81-9e5c-97e13b22b0c6
GENERALISED GEOLOGICAL AND
INDUSTRIAL MINERAL MAP OF ETHIOPIA

24 25
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
COMMODITY RESERVES UNIT LOCATION
Gold >200 metric tonnes Around Adola, Myale, Metekel, Tulu kape, Dul, Odagodere,
Benshangul, Akobo, Tigray
Coal >360 million metric tonnes
Around Moye, Delbi, Yayu, Chilga, Gojeb, Mush, Sar wiha
kunzila, Wuchale, Haik, Dese, Mersa, Arjo, Mendi, Kindo
halal, Morka, Jeren, Lalosapo
Tantalum 19435 metric tonnes Around Adola/Keneticha
Platinum 12.5 metric tonnes Around Yubdo, Oromia
Iron 68.4 million metric tonnes Around Bikilal, Melka arba and others
Nickel 17 million metric tonnes Around Adola
Manganese 207563 metric tonnes Around Afar/ Inkafala
Limestone >900 million metric tonnes Around Mekele, Abay, Butajira, Ogaden, Denakil, Diredawa,
Harar
Gypsum 57.4 million metric tonnes Around Tigray, Oromia, Amhara
Clay 21.6 million metric tonnes Around Mossobo, Diredawa, Melka jebdu, Debrebirhan,
Burayu
Potash 1.3 billion metric tonnes Around Afar
Phosphate 181 million metric tonnes Around Bikilal, Melka Arba
Marble 100 million metric tonnes Around Daletti, Mora, Baruda, Bullen, Hulakuni, Tigray
Granite 70 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Silica sand 3.4 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Feldspar 500 thousand metric
tonnes Most parts of the country
Quartz 400 thousand metric
tonnes Most parts of the country
Dolomite 2 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Kaolin >20 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Datomite >120 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Bentonite 172 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Soda ash 460 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Salt 4.3 billion metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Sulphur 6 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Graphite 460 thousand metric
tonnes Most parts of the country
Kyanite >10 million metric tonnes Most parts of the country
Talc 118,175 metric tonnes Most parts of the country
5.2.1  Gemstones
Beautiful gemstones are
loved and admired across
the globe, and Ethiopia has
them in abundance. This
includes opal, emerald,
sapphire, amazonite, amber,
ruby, tourmaline, aquamarine,
chrysoprase, peridot, and
various types of quartz, agate
and jasper.

Ethiopia	has	become	a	significant	producer	of
opal, sapphire and emerald in recent years,
bringing the total reported gems to over 40. New
discoveries are on the rise, including the recent
colour-change gem-quality chrome grossular
green garnet reported in the Journal of Gemology
(2018).
Since	the	first	discovery	of	opals	in	Mezzezo,
thousands of people have become engaged
in the sector, supporting their livelihoods but
earning and contributing very little to the
economy, much less than its potential. This is
mainly because of the fragmented and ill-posed
value chain of the opal and the gemstone/
mineral mining and trading activities rampant
throughout the country. Ethiopia is now entering
a new age of development and a strong focus,
coupled with pragmatic strategy on earth’s
resources such as gemstones, is appropriate and
timely. It is by and large necessary to develop
a roadmap that addresses the gap in skills
development and entrepreneurship and to add
value along the full value chain (Mine to Market).
TVET programmes that give opportunities to
develop capabilities of lapidary and jewellery
design and bench-scale manufacturing are
important interventions. The coloured gemstones
sector has enormous potential within both the
local and international markets. This, linked with
an age-old practice of making jewellery with
silver and gold and cultural and historical designs
of Ethiopia, is an important asset towards building
a vibrant gems and jewellery industry.

The major strengths of the gemstone sector
of Ethiopia - aside from having great potential
and variety - includes increased popularity
in the world market, growing tourism and an
emerging middle-class. In addition, Government
is committed to improve and reform the industry
based on international practice.
One of the most striking varieties of opal,
discovered	for	the	first	time	in	the	early	1990s,
was the Mezezo Opal (orange, reddish brown).
Specimens from Mezezo (Shewa) consist of
nodules of a reddish-brown volcanic rock with
orange, reddish brown or “chocolate” brown
precious opal inside.
Opal from this area occurs in a wide range of
body colours. Much of the opal has a brown, red
or orange body colour; however, yellow, white
and clear body colours are also found. It is found
in	stratified	igneous	rocks	of	rhyolite,	tuff	and
ignimbrite. Precious opal mined in Ethiopia began
entering the gem and jewellery market in 1994,
four years after the discovery of the Shewa opal.
1  OPALS

26 27
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Later, the most important Wegel Tena white opal
(in Wollo, northern part of Ethiopia) appeared on
the market as the Wollo Opal. This opal has a
vivid	play-of-colour	flashing	from	a	body	colour
of clear, white, yellow, orange or brown. This
deposit still produces large amounts of white
and crystal precious opal and occasionally
some black material. In 2013, yet another source
was discovered in Wollo, at the Stayish mine
near the town of Gashena. This discovery has
yielded mostly dark and black opal, along with
some white and crystal opal and has been
actively producing since 2013. The black opal
deposit is set in a distinct opal-bearing layer in a
mountainous area at an altitude of around
3,000 metres. It lies approximately 700 km
northeast of Addis Ababa, more than 100 km from
the historic town of Lalibela by road, and about
30 km north of the white opal deposit.
Like the white opal, the black opal is found at the
contact zone between the volcanic rock series
and	the	underlying	clay-rich	layer	(tuff).	The
layer is one in a sequence of repeating volcanic
ash and ignimbrite layers. Field observations at
different	locations	show	that	the	opal-bearing
layer is contained in a single stratum extending
for tens and even hundreds of kilometres along
the mountain belt. The opal-bearing clay layer is
about 60 cm thick and contains opal of various
quality and colours. The black opal is retrieved
from	flat	tunnels	up	to	15-20	metres	long	that
are dug horizontally into the mountain slope by
local villagers. The material generally comes in
nodules (G&G, Winter 2014, V 50 N0.4). The ash
layers (seam) can be traced along the valley walls
over several kilometres.
Estimated	fine	gem-quality	material	currently
coming out of the deposit might be averaged
from 3 to 4 carats. The gem-quality crystals so far
produced do not require clarity enhancements,
including oiling, making the Ethiopian emerald
distinct. The emeralds are of medium-green-
-saturated and mica-schist-hosted material
in pegmatite veins which show gemmological
features comparable to rough emeralds from
Zambia, Russia and Brazil.

The Ethiopian emerald is described by dealers
as having colour a little more “open and vivid”
and more of a minty colour that glows. It is on
par with Zambian and Brazilian emeralds in the
international market as far as price is concerned.
The new discovery is an important clue for
conducting	systematic	scientific	studies	along
the entire belt, in particular south of the Kenticha
greenstone belt.
In February 2017, the news of discovered
sapphire deposit in northern Ethiopia in a place
called Chilla (near Aksum, the historic city of
Ethiopia) was reported to the trade community.
Several sites were mined by artisanal miners
in the nearby localities and produced rounded
crystals of sapphires. The colour of sapphires
ranged from dark to light blue, and many
contained	fine	rutile	particles	and	occasionally
exhibited a green or yellow colour, sometimes
combined with blue in bicolour. Most of the
sapphires do not require heat treatment.
2  EMERALDS
3  SAPPHIRES
GEMSTONES LICENCES AREAS,
WITH LITHOLOGY
LEGEND:
5.2.2  Metallic minerals
FOCUS ON ETHIOPIA’S GOLD RESOURCES
The exploitation of placer
gold in Ethiopia dates back
at least 3,500 years and large
quantities of gold have been
produced to date. Mineral
exploration began in the late
1890s by foreign companies.
However, modern mineral
exploration started in 1968.

Since the establishment of the Geological
Survey of Ethiopia (GSE), various geological
mapping and mineral exploration projects have
been undertaken by the government, both
on its own and with the assistance of donor
organisations. The Ethiopian government has
created a favourable business environment to
attract mining investors. As a result, a number
of companies have been participating in gold
exploration activities dating back to the mid-
1990s.
In southern Ethiopia, the Lega-Dembi and Sakaro
are the only primary gold mines. However, a
number of others gold mines, including Tulu
Kapi, Dish and Jilaye (in western Ethiopia), Okote
(southern Ethiopia) and Meli (northern Ethiopia),
have reached advanced stages of exploration.
Precambrian occurrences are being explored and
exploited in the southern, western and northern
greenstone belts of Ethiopia. Precambrian rocks
are the most important repositories for gold
deposits. Most gold deposits and occurrences
in Ethiopia are genetically related to Orogenic
type, though Skarn-related, Intrusive-related,
Epithermal	and	Volcanogenic	Massive	Sulfied
(VMS)	types	are	currently	identified.	Apart	from
the deposits of epithermal gold, all of these
targets belong to Ethiopia’s greenstone belts.
0   120   240   360   480
Kilometres
n
A new emerald deposit
located in the Seba Boru
(Kenticha greenstone belt)
of Southern Ethiopia near the
mining town called Shakiso.
GEMSTONES LICENSES AREAS
(EMERALD, OPAL, SAPPHIRE)

28 29
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
The western greenstone belt
stretches more than 600 km
from Akobo-(south-east),
and its average width varies
from 50 to 200 km. This belt
comprises chlorite, sericite
and graphitic schist, phyllites,
quartzites, and andesitic to
rhyolitic volcanics, hosting
auriferous veins and
alteration zones.

The belt comprises major regions of Gambela,
Western Wollega, and Benishangul-Gumuz,
which include gold prospects at Chamo, Akobo,
Guraferda, Gezana, Tumet, Godare, Baro,
Ankori, Tulu Kapi, Tulu Kami, Dimma, Baruda,
Oda Godare, Mengie, Ashashire, Dul, Gambella
mountain, Indaka, Bekoji Motisha, Suken, Egambo,
Kilaji, Wombera, Metekel (Jilaye), Guba and other
sites.
     GAMbELA REGION
The Akobo narrow greenstone sub-belt is a high-
potential target for gold exploration. Akobo’s
geological	setting	comprises	mafic	schists,	meta-
ultramafic	rocks,	meta-sedimentary	schists,	and
undifferentiated	schists	and	gneisses.
     WESTERN WOLLEGA REGION
Gold deposit prospects include Tulu Kapi, Ankori,
Tulu Kami, Laga Baguda, Chokorsa, Kata, Nejo,
Yubdo, Oda-Godere, and many others. In these
areas, gold bearing quartz veins are hosted in
schists and syenite, as carbonate veins, and in
auriferous zones within sheared metavolcanics
interbedded with chert and carbonate lenses.

     THE TULU KAPI AND ANKORE AREA
This area is underlain by metasediments,
consisting of sandstone, phyllites and quartzites
at the central part, followed by metamorphosed
intrusive units including granites, syenites, and
diorite-granodiorites to gabbro in the western
and eastern parts of the area. There are also talc
schists, chlorite schists and mica schists. The
gold	is	specifically	hosted	in	the	mafic	and	felsic
syenite units. The gold mineralisation in the Tulu
Kapi main area is associated with sheared, altered
syenite unit. KEFI Minerals Ltd’s Tulu Kapi Project
has reached an advanced exploration stage. It
has established probable reserves of 16.9 Mt
@1.82 g/t (totalling 986,000oz Au) and indicated
and inferred resources of 24.9 Mt @2.34 g/t
(totalling 1,900,000oz Au).
     bENSHANGUL-GUMUz REGION
This region consists of meta-volcanic and meta-
sedimentary	sequences,	mafic-ultramafic	mega
lenses and minor intrusions, as well as composite
mafic	to	felsic	plutonic	complexes	of	bathoilithic
dimensions. Gold deposit and occurrence
prospects include: Galesa (Tambish, Cholo, Jilaye,
Fite, Abaydar), Ablarus, Epar, Dull, Ashashire,
Dish, and other areas. The gold deposits and
occurrences in the Gelasa area are genetically
related to the skarn type gold deposit, amounting
to more than 40 tonnes at an average of about
3 g/t Au. The Ablarus and Epar gold
mineralisations are related to quartz mica schist
and metagabbro, and the sericitised metagranite
shows low grade mineralisation ranging from
an average of 0.4 g/t to 1.19 g/t gold. There is
also a probability of gold occurrences related
to intermediate dyke/sill swarms, skarns and
brecciated, hematite quartz veins with minor
occurrences in which sulphides (pyrite, pyrrhotite,
chalcopyrite, arsenopyrite) are disseminated.
2  WESTERN GREENSTONE BELT
1  SOUTHERN GREENSTONE BELT
The Southern greenstone belt includes the separate Adola-Kenticha, Ageremariam, Arero and Moyale
areas, which are associated with gold mineralisation.
Potential gold deposits are located within Ethiopia’s various Greenstone Belts.
•	 Primary gold deposits
•	 Platinum deposits
•	 Iron deposits and mineralisation
•	 Base metals mineralisation
•	 Placer gold deposits
WESTERN and SW BELT
•	Gold deposits and occurrences
•	Nickel
•	Tantalum
•	Placer gold deposits
•	Chromite mineralisation
SOUTHERN BELT
•	 Primary gold mineralisation
•	 Base metals mineralisation
•	 Placer gold ooccurrences and deposits
NORTHERN BELTMINERAL POTENTIAL OF ETHIOPIA: METALLIC MINERALS
ADOLA-KENTICHA bELT
Predominantly known as the Adola belt, the Adola-Kenticha belt comprises the primary gold
deposits and occurrences of Lega-Dembi, Sakaro, Okote, Wollena, Kumudu, Megado-Serdo, Dawa-
Digati, Bore, Abab River, Haranfama (northern Kenticha) and many others. The Adola belt is a major
Neoproterozoic shear belt within the Pan-African orogeny, which hosts major primary gold deposits
confined	in	metavolcano-sedimentary	assemblage.
HAGEREMARIAM AND ARERO GREENSTONE REGION
This region hosts pyrite-bearing gold in meta-basic and metaultrabasic rocks as well as gold-
bearing quartz veins in intermediate to acid alkaline intrusive rocks.
MOYALE GREENSTONE REGION
This region consists of the Haramsam, Hassamte and Chamuk gold prospect areas underlain by
meta-granodiorite, amphibolites, gabbroamphibolite, and gabbro and amphibolite schist, which
hosts auriferous quartz veins.

30 31
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
The third major greenstone belt in northern
Ethiopia comprises several meta-volcano
sedimentary belts and sub-belts, bounded
by	mafic-ultramafic	rocks,	hosting	gold	and
base-metal occurrences. The primary gold
occurrences of Terakimti, Adi Zeresenay, Zager,
Asgede, Mia Koka and Niraqque as well as the
base	metals	of	Tsehafi	Emba	and	others	are
identified.	Volcanogenic	Massive	Sulfide	(VMS)
type of gold deposits, the southward extension
of Bisha VMS gold deposit being mined in Eritrea,
has currently been discovered at Meli and Daro,
and gold mining from the secondary enrichment
of overlying gossan body has already started at
Meli by Ezana Mining Ltd.

The gold deposits and occurrences of the
northern greenstone belt are principally hosted
in quartz veins of sheared intermediate meta-
volcanic porphyry, in a carbonised talc-tremolite-
epidote schist, as well as in sericite-chlorite and
quartz sericite schists in addition to the sporadic
occurrence of graphite.

A low-grade epithermal gold deposit was
discovered at Tendaho, in the Afar region of
eastern Ethiopia. Geothermal drilling revealed
highly	silicified	zones	returning	grades	of	1	g/t
gold. Currently foreign investors are exploring
how	to	best	define	targets	of	epithermal	gold
in the rift system of Afar Region. Other parts
of the Rift Valley possess very low-grade
gold occurrences, including those reported
at Gedemsa caldera, near Adama town, Epar,
Dull, Ashashire, Dish and other areas. The gold
deposits and occurrences in the Gelasa area are
genetically related to the skarn type gold deposit,
amounting to more than 40 tonnes at an average
of about 3 g/t Au.

The Ablarus and Epar gold mineralisations are
related to quartz mica schist and metagabbro,
and the sericitized metagranite shows low grade
mineralisation ranging  from an average of 0.4 g/t
to 1.19 g/t gold. There is also a probability of gold
occurrences related to intermediate dyke/sill
swarms, skarns and brecciated, hematite quartz
veins	with	minor	occurrences	in	which	sulfides
(pyrite, pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite, arsenopyrite) are
disseminated.
3  NORTHERN GREENSTONE BELT 4  RIFT VALLEY OF ETHIOPIA
ALL ETHIOPIAN ExPLORATION MINING
LICENCES
LEGEND:
0   120   240   360   480
Kilometres
n
ALL ETHIOPIAN LICENCES

32 33
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
5  PLACER GOLD 5.2.3  Industrial minerals
FOCUS ON ETHIOPIA’S POTASH RESOURCES
Considering Ethiopia’s vast mineral potential, potash has
garnered some of the greatest interest. Today, 95% of the
world’s potash is mined for use in fertilisers, while the rest is
used for feed supplements and industrial production.
Potash was known to be mined in Ethiopia as
early as the 14th century, from one of the world’s
largest deposits, located in Dallol. There are
extraordinary deposits of evaporite, particularly in
the Danakil Depression. Prospectors have been
aware of the Danakil Depression’s potential since
the	early	1900s,	and	efforts	to	launch	small-scale
production were made prior to World War II.
Much of the geological setting of the Afar
region of northeastern Ethiopia is dominated by
Quaternary lacustrine sediments and volcanic
rocks of the East Africa rift valley. Interbeded
volcano-sedimentary series (SRRS) occur on
both sides of Danakil depression and the central
section is covered by a thick evaporite succession
(the salt formation), which is partially covered by
Quaternary volcanic rocks. The salt formation in
the depression is composed of a thick evaporite
succession	of	gypsum,	anhydrite,	interstratified
halites and potash salts, as well as shale.
In Danakil Depression, the potash deposit occurs
within	the	evaporite	sequence,	confined	to	the
limits below sea level. The salt formation is about
450 square miles in surface area.

The gypsum beds form the outer most units
of the evaporite sequence. The deepest hole
drilled in salt recorded the sequence to a depth
of 1 km. Several potash horizons are recognised,
although only the upper most ones have been
exposed. Previous activities carried out by various
companies have revealed the presence of two
ore bodies at Dallol - the Cresent and Musely ore
bodies.
The Crescent ore body is 1 km southwest of
Mt. Dallol. It has an irregular shape, covering a
relatively	flat	lying	area	of	about	1	km	long	and
100 m wide. The deposit surrounds a bubbling
spring of magnesium chloride (named Black
Mountain) and occurs at depth of 300 feet, mainly
in the form of carnallities and some sylvite with a
maximum thickness of 200 feet.
The Musely ore body is located 4.5 km west of
Mt. Dallol, close to a large alluvial formed at the
mouth of Musely canyon. It extends over a length
of about 4 km and is about 1.5 km in width along
the trend of NNE. Musely’s largest potash deposit
was extensively explored during the 1960s,
within a thick sequence of halite. The potash-rich
interval consists of sylvite (upper most), carnallite,
and basal kainite. This interval was explored at
Musely by drilling at 300 m spacing, by shaft-
sinking (90 m) and by working some
800 m underground to evaluate minability.
Drilling indicates the presence of a potash
bearing horizon of 500 m depth, in line with what
was found by the underground and shallow
drilling work.
During earlier investigations, the ore reserve was
estimated at over 12 million tonnes, based on
the	cut-off	value	of	25%	KCl.	However,	there	are
currently companies with successful ongoing
potash operations. Yara Dallol and CIRCUM
Minerals Ltd are two companies operating in
the Danakil Depression. Both have undertaken
feasibility	studies	in	recent	years,	with	significant
reserves of natural resources for the production
of	Sulphur	of	Potash	(SOP)	identified	in	their
allocated exploration areas. The current resource
drill covered about 40% of concession area.
Seismic	data	confirm	continuity	of	the	potash
layers throughout the rest of the area. This
suggests an overall resource potential size of 11
to 12 billion tonnes of potash-bearing salt beds,
making the Danakil depression potentially one of
the world’s largest undeveloped potash mineral
deposits.
GOLD ExPLORATION MINING LICENCES
n
0   125    250   375      500
Kilometres
Placer gold has long been considered a prime source of income for local people. Systematic placer gold
exploration	and	prospecting	activities	have	been	carried	out	in	different	parts	of	the	country,	particularly
in the Adola area of southern Ethiopia since the Italian aggression during World War II. The Ethiopian
government issued a proclamation in 2010, establishing a system to encourage traditional and artisanal
mining, which has helped to attract foreign investment.

Some significant localities of placer gold, which were recently studied by the GSE, include:
LEGEND:

Gold exploration and mining
             Gold mining and advanced exploration
Ethiopian Geology
Geo name

Metavolcanic sedimentary rocks
 Gneisses and migmatites
 Late to post-tectonic granites and syenites
	 Mafic-ultramafic	suites
 Pre to syntectonic granitoid complex
 Regions boundary
ADOLA-HAGEREMARIAM AREA
Haranfam, Dembloko and Abaya (lower Mormora River),
Meleka (Busa-Idra and Haro Dida), Genale Korcha,
Barsisa Kochore, Gidicho, Ababa River basin (Abab Gumi
and Ababa-Ankora), Raro River basin, Kilenso-Babicho,
Meleka and Ropi (Kedida 1,2 and Tritra), Medano and
Dogo, Burkuke, Logita and many others.

GAMbELLA-WESTERN WOLLEGA-bENISHANGUL-
GUMUz
Placer gold has traditionally been mined in several
localities of Akobo Basin, Godare, Guba, Mangie, Sirba,
Sirkole, Tumet, Dabus and others.

34 35
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
FOCUS ON ETHIOPIA’S TANTALUM RESOURCES

Today tantalum capacitors are used in almost
every kind of eletronic device, and the increasing
penetration of the smartphone market means
tantalum demand is only set to grow in the
coming years. Ethiopia is already the sixth biggest
producer of tantalum in the world with the
potential to dramatically increase its standing.
The known potential prospects of tantalum
and niobium occurs in the Kenticha granite
pegmatite	field,	with	an	area	of	2,500	km
2, in
the Neoproterozoic greenstone basement
of Southern Ethiopia. The tantalum-bearing
pegmatite deposit in Kenticha Field is exposed
over a 2.5 km-long and 40 to 70m-wide area
occurring in a package of steeply dipping
serpentinites and talc-tremolite schists. The
thickness of the pegmatite varies. In locations
where both hanging and foot wall contacts
are exposed, thickness ranges from 40 to
70 metres. The upper part of the orebody is
strongly weathered to a variety of clay minerals.
The tantalite occurs in grain size from a few
millimetres up to about 5 cm. Weathering has
affected	the	feldspar	and	most	of	the	lithium-
bearing minerals, whereas the tantalite is
unaffected	by	the	weathering.
The deeper part of the ore body is hardrock,
non-weathered pegmatite. This ore body has
about the same tonnage as the weathered
orebody, but has not yet been exploited. The
Kenticha pegmatites display complex zoning.
Apart from columbite, a number of lithium
minerals such as lepidolite and spodumene are
found. Furthermore, small amounts of beryl and
sulphides occur.

Mining of tantalum niobium, which focused
principally on the main Kenticha pegmatite
site, 50 km south east of the gold mining town
Shakiso, contributes to about 10% of world
consumption. Other rare metal-bearing pegmatite
(Bupo, Kilkile, Dermidama) lie along the northern
and southern extension as well as in the eastern
sub-parallel trends of Kenticha pegmatite.
The rare metal-bearing pegmatite with the main
Kenticha deposit has proved to be a world-class
ore reserve of tantalite with
 subordinate niobium,
lithium beryllium-bearing minerals in addition
to high-quality ceramic grade quartz-feldspar,
and other industrial minerals. The complex ore is
associated with a primary granitepegmatite body
and to a lateritic mantle of weathering developed
over the primary pegmatite.
In general, three types of the deposit have been
recognised:
 Tantalite-bearing granitepegmatite with
 complex Ta-Nb-Li-Be mineralisation.

 Lateritic-type Ore: The mantle of weathering
 developed over pegmatite and granite.

  Elluvial, delluvial and alluvial placer ore:
 The weathered ore developed over the
 primary ore of pegmatite represents the huge
 rare-metal resources of the Kenticha deposit.
Ethiopia has been mining and exporting
tantalite via the newly named Ethiopian Mineral,
Petroleum and Biofuel Corporation (EMPBC).
About 100-120 t of Ta2O5 per equivalent
concentrate containing 50–60 wt.% of Ta2O5 are
delivered to the metallurgical industries which
are providers of Nb and Ta for 60 wt% production
of the capacitor. The mine is estimated to
contain primary ore with a probable reserve of
approximately 17,000 tonnes containing 0.017%
Ta2O5. The probable reserve of primary ore
is 2,400 tonnes at a grade of 0.015% Ta2O5.
Ethiopia hosts important rare metals, in particular
tantalum mineralisation, however it has not
been fully utilised. EMPBC plans to increase the
production of tantalum through its successive
expansion projects and to improve the quality
of the products. EMPBC also wishes to work
in joint venture with investment in exploration,
development, mining of mineral resources
and production of value-added materials from
tantalite concentrate in Ethiopia.
5.3     ASM IN ETHIOPIA
Ethiopia’s long history of artisanal mining spans
three millennia. The gold deposits in Ethiopia’s
rivers, for example, have been exploited for
thousands of years by small-scale miners.
Today, ASM happens all around the country
and still plays an extremely important role in
Ethiopia. However, much artisanal mining activity
remains informal, and historically the sector has
not	benefitted	from	much	formal	support	or
regulation from the Government.

Due to this, developing and formalising the
ASM sector has become a high priority for both
Ethiopia’s Homegrown Reform Agenda and for
the	MoMP.	Significant	reforms	are	underway
to transform ASM activity into a sustainable
livelihood which will enable Government to
increase revenue from the sector, create
responsible and inclusive small enterprises to
engage safely and legally in the mining sector,
create jobs and pave the way for the collaborative
coexistence with large-scale mining that has led
to sustainable development.
5.3.1  Ethiopia’s Artisanal, Special Small-
Scale Mining National Strategy
Ethiopia has recently put in place a
comprehensive ASSM National Strategy for all
strategic minerals mined at the artisanal level.
The aim is to modernise the process and make
the mining sector an attractive jurisdiction for
large-scale investment. The strategy plays a vital
role in advancing the development of the sector
to contribute in a more meaningful way and
increase its overall contribution as well as assist in
capturing revenues in a systematic manner.
Its primary objective is to formalise the artisanal
mining sector and promote responsible, inclusive
and productive operations that contribute to
sustainable development.
To achieve this, the Government of Ethiopia has
adopted a coordinated approach to deliver on
the following key objectives:
1
Strengthen ASSM governance so that it is
an attractive and conducive jurisdiction for
investment as part of the formal economy.
Three aspects of good governance need to
be strengthened, namely law and regulation,
structural management and geosciences data.
2
Increase	efficiency,	productivity	and
competitiveness of local mineral producers at
ASSM level. This incorporates promoting access
to capital, access to
 technology and access to
skilled labour.
3
Enhance value-addition and maximise earnings
by ensuring access to local processing facilities
and markets, and developing supplier and
diversified	businesses.
4
Foster an environmentally and socially
responsible ASSM sector that complies with
appropriate environmental, community, health
and safety standards.
5
Promote two important issues that crosscut
in each of the other four objectives, namely
women’s	fair	participation	and	beneficiation	in
ASSM and utilisation of indigenous knowledge.
CATEGORY TONNAGE
(MT)
KCL
(%)
KCL
MT)
MEASURED 1,229.9 18.8 231.7
INDICATED 1,603.8 18.3 294.1
MEASURED
and
INDICATED
2,883.7 18.6 525.8
INFERRED 2,098.5 17.5 366.5
totAl 4,932.2 18.1 892.3
potASH minerAl reSourceS
CATEGORY KCL IN
RES. (MT)
CONVERSION
FACTOR (%)
KCL
(MT)
PROVEN 191.0 23.765 45.3
PROBABLE 263.1 23.765 62.4
totAl 454.1 23.765 107.8
potASH proven and proBABle reServeS

36 37
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
5.3.2  Artisanal mining, employment and
the economy
A study concluded in 2016 by Ethiopia’s
Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
(E-EITI) on ASM uncovers that:
 Artisanal mining contributes about 65% of
 Ethiopia’s foreign exchange earnings.

 It directly employs around 1.26 million people.

 It is a source of livelihood for a further
      7.5 million people.
 Those who engage in artisanal mining are
 highly dependent on that income stream, with
 an estimate 74% of their livelihoods derived
 from mining.
Artisanal mining also plays an important role in
discovering new mineral deposits and in curbing
rural to urban migration.
5.3.3  Improving market access and
increasing earnings
While Ethiopia has an artisanal mineral operations
licencing process in place, around 94% of active
artisanal miners are unlicenced. Relatedly, only
around 20% of the royalties owed by artisanal
miners are actually collected. This means
that, with better sector oversight, ASM has the
potential to be a far more potent contributor to
Ethiopia’s economy.
Another related challenge is that much of the
trade in the minerals produced by the ASM
sector is illegal. The E-EITI’s ASM study estimated
that the volume of mineral marketed through
formal (legal) channels is only 39% of the total
production.
The minerals that are collected by legal buyers
at production site (from both legal and informal
producers) is directly channelled to the National
Bank of Ethiopia for export. However, the
remaining balance (61%) goes through informal
channels, and is largely absorbed in the local
markets, with some possibly exported.
The MoMP, along with a host of other ministries
and stakeholder groups, is actively seeking to
address this issue by developing centralised
formal market centres, close to mining areas
that are legally connected with central regional,
national and international markets.
5.3.4		Profile	of	an	artisanal	miner	in
Ethiopia
Artisanal miners tend to be at the peak
productive age of 18-45 years, meaning that
artisanal mining is an important source of
employment for Ethiopia’s youth, especially in
rural areas. The majority of artisanal miners are
men. Studies have found that women (as well as
children and the elderly) are participating less
and less in the sector, due to surface mining
becoming increasingly untenable as placer gold
in Ethiopia has been almost entirely depleted.
This means that Artisanal mining increasingly
requires digging or tunnelling, activities that are
dominated by men.
5.3.5  Prioritising women in the ASSM
sector
The Government of Ethiopia and the Ministry
of Mines and Petroleum are committedly
working	to	ensure	the	benefits	of	the	mining
sector are shared equally among its citizens,
and that it creates inclusive, safer and socially
responsible SMEs across mining communities
and jurisdictions.
The	MoMP	is	giving	specific	consideration	to
gender aspects in the design, implementation
and monitoring of the strategy and policies aimed
towards the formalisation of the ASSM sector in
Ethiopia, and women’s economic empowerment
is	integrated	at	every	stage	of	identified	strategic
interventions.
Key interventions of the ASSM strategy include:
 Legislation of gender prioritisation
	 requirements	in	employment,	beneficiation,
 local content policies, CSR and community
 development strategies of the country;
 Policy promotion - to raise awareness of
 women’s role and rights in ASSM for
 sustainable development and safeguard
 reproductive health;

 Provide extension services - to capacitate
 and sensitise women’s legal and social rights
 in the mining communities and reduce
 exposure to sexual exploitation;
 Structural and organisational support -
 to promote women-led cooperatives with
 demonstrated entrepreneurial excellence to
 address disparities in pay and access to
 training;
	 Develop	and	support	existing	microfinance
 and traditional community banking systems -
 to ensure women have equal access to
	 finance	and	loans;
 Provide appropriate mining technology
 that promotes transferable, environmentally
 conscious, sustainable technology and
 technical skills - to diversify the role of women
 in mining value chain and reduce the negative
 reproductive health impact of inappropriate
 chemical use;
 Develop technical mining skills of ASSM
 operators - to increase the number of women
 who are skilled mining professionals in the
 industry;
 Empower and educate women in processing,
	 gemmology	and	refining	techniques	-	to
	 develop	successful	diversified	niche
 businesses; to participate in value chains,
	 beneficiation	and	other	sustainable	economic
 generating activities.

38 39
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
ETHIOPIA’S MINERAL SECTOR
2
INVESTING IN
ETHIOPIA’S
MINERAL
SECTOR
06
Ethiopia’s Homegrown Economic Reform Agenda seeks to propel
Ethiopia into becoming the African model of prosperity by 2030.
Key in this agenda are macroeconomic, structural and sectoral
reforms that will pave the way for job creation, poverty reduction,
and sustainable, inclusive growth.

INVESTING IN
6.
The Ministry’s vision is to:
 Increase investment in the sector
 Build the organisational and technical capacity of Ethiopia’s institutions
 Enable value-addition and facilitate the industrialisation of Ethiopia’s economy
 Create opportunities for quality direct and indirect jobs in the sector
 Improve internal revenue and increase foreign exchange earnings
To realise these objectives, and in line with Ethiopia’s Homegrown Economic Reform Agenda, the MoMP
is preparing a 10-year strategic roadmap, which will be implemented in two 5-year strategic plans. This
process is under way in 2020.
The	MoMP’s	work	is	firmly	guided	by	a	number	of	international,	continental	and	national	ambitions.
Globally, the Ministry supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). At a continental level, the
MoMP supports the African’s Union’s Agenda2063 to build ‘The Africa We Want’, the Continental Free
Trade Area (CTFA) and the Africa Mining Vision. While at the sub-regional level the Ministry is a member
of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), an eight-country trade bloc in Africa, and the
Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, COMESA.
Nationally, the Ministry’s goal is to ensure Ethiopia joins the ranks of lower middle-income countries
by 2030, while ensuring environmentally resilient ‘Green Economic Growth and Industrialisation’ and
growing the private sector’s role in Ethiopia’s economy.
6.1     ABOUT THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND PETROLEUM

40 41
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
institutional framework 6.2     HOW TO APPLY FOR A LICENCE

Ethiopia has a federal administrative system comprising of 9 Regional States and 2 City Administrative
Councils.
The Licencing and Administration Directorate in the MoMP issues:
The Regional States Mining Bureaus have the mandate to issue:
Small- and large-scale mining licences for construction minerals, small-scale mining licences for
industrial minerals, reconnaissance, exploration and retention licencees with respect to construction and
industrial minerals.
The Regional State administration also collects royalties from the small-scale and artisanal production of
precious minerals, industrial and construction materials.
The	local	Zone	and	Woreda	administration	is	effective	if	properly	utilised	-	(the	Woreda	is	the	smallest
administration hierarchy in the Ethiopian federal system).
1
2
3
Reconnaissance
Licences
Exploration
Licences
Retention
Licences
4
5
6
Artisanal Mineral
Operations Licences
Special Small-Scale
Mineral Operations
Licences
Small-Scale Mineral
Operations Licences
7
Large-Scale
Mineral
Operations
Licences
MINISTRY OF MINES
AND
PETROLEUM
ISSUE RECONNAISSANCE
EXPLORATION
Retention and mining
licence other than those
issued by the Regional
States
REGIONAL bUREAUS OF MINES,
ENERGY/WATER RESOURCES of the
NATIONAL REGIONAL STATES
and CITY ADMINISTRATIONS
ISSUE ARTISANAL MINING LICENCES
FOR ETHIOPIAN NATIONALS
ISSUE FOR DOMESTIC INVESTORS:
•	 Reconnaissance, Exploration and
Retention licencees with respect to
construction and industrial minerals
•	 Small-scale mining licences for industrial
minerals
•	 Small- and large-scale mining licences
for construction minerals
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
of ETHIOPIA
•					Autonomous &
      accountable to the MoMP
•	 Responsible to carry out
basic geological mapping,
mineral exploration
and other related
geological activities and
provide services (data
dissemination, drilling and
lab. analysis)
NATIONAL REGIONAL STATE
CITY ADMINISTRATION
ZONE
WOREDA
GOVERNMENT:
•	 Federal 	Democratic	Republic
•		 9	National 	Regional	States
•		 2	Federally 	Chartered	cities
Afar
Amhara
Tigray
Somali
Oromia
Benishangul-Gumuz
Gambela
Addis Ababa
Dire Dawa
Southern Nations,
Nationalities and
Peoples
Harar

42 43
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
6.3     MINING LICENCE APPLICATION PROCESS
As part of Ethiopia’s ongoing reforms, the application process for any and all mineral operations
licences from the MoMP is now entirely paperless and is done via an e-portal:
https:/ /ethiopian.portal.miningcadastre.com
Applicants simply need to register on the Ethiopian Mining Cadastre portal. Once registered, users will
be able to submit all applications and supporting documentation electronically via the portal.
  cAdAStre regiStrAtion procceSS
  licence ApplicAtion proceSS
type of licence detAilS
Reconnaissance
Licence
Allows its holders to do a general search for any mineral in a particular region. It is
issued for an 18-month period, and is non-renewable and non-exclusive.
Exploration
Licence
Allows	its	holders	to	search	for	any	mineral	in	a	specified	region	by	means	of
photographs, images, geological, geochemical, geophysical or drilling. This licence
is exclusive and is initially issued for 3 years. An Exploration Licence can be issued
and renewed for a maximum of 10 years. However, upon each renewal, the licence
holder is required to relinquish a portion of the licenced exploration area unless
they can declare a resource.
Retention
Licence
Can be issued to an applicant that has discovered a mineral resource of economic
significance,	but	which	cannot	be	developed	immediately	due	to	adverse	market
conditions or because the required processing technology might be unavailable.
This is an exclusive licence that is initially issued for 3 years. After the 3-year period,
the licence may be renewed once more for an additional 3 years.
Artisanal Mineral
Operations
Licence
Issued either to an individual or a small or micro-enterprise whose mining
operation is mostly manual and does not involve employed workers. Exclusive,
non-renewable and issued for a maximum of 2 years.
Special Small-
Scale Mineral
Operations
Licence
Issued to holders of an Artisanal Mineral Operations Licence who now have
the capacity to employ machinery in their mining operations. A Special Small-
Scale Mineral Operations Licence is exclusive and is only issued to holders of an
Artisanal Mineral Operations Licence. Initially issued for 10 years, whereafter it
needs to be renewed every 5 years.
Small-Scale
Mineral
Operations
Licence
Issued to a mining operation whose annual run-of-mine ore does not exceed
a	specified	amount.	The	maximum	allowed	run-of-mine	ore	amount	varies
depending on the relevant mineral. A Special Small-Scale Mineral Operations
Licence is exclusive, is initially issued for 10 years, whereafter it needs to be
renewed every
5 years. The maximum run-of-mine ore for a Small-Scale Mineral Operations
Licence is highlighted in the table below:
Maximum run-of-mine ore for a Small-Scale Mining Licence:

  Metallic minerals (e.g. iron, lead, copper or nickel) the maximum:
				•	 150,	000	tonnes	for	an	open	pit	mine,	or
				•	 75,	000	tonnes	for	underground	operations
  Industrial minerals (e.g. kaolin, bentonite, diatomite, dolomite, quartz or coal) the maximum:
				•	 120,	000	tonnes
 Construction minerals the maximum:
				•	 80,	000	cubic	metres	for	material	like	sand,	gravel,	pumice,	ignimbrite	or	clay
				•	 10,	000	cubic	metres	for	dimension	stones	(e.g.	marble	or	granite)
  Salts extracted from brine the maximum:
				•	 14,	000	tonnes
  Precious or semi-precious stones, the maximum:
				•	 100,	000	cubic	metres	for	a	placer	operation
				•	 75,	000	tonnes	for	a	primary	deposit	mining	operation
(For more details see Proclamation No. 678-2010).
Large-Scale
Mineral
Operations
Licence
Issued	to	a	mining	operation	whose	annual	run-off	of	mine	ore	exceeds	the
maximums amounts allowed under a Small-Scale Licence. Exclusive, initially
issued for 20 years, whereafter it needs to be renewed every 10 years.
6.4     ABOUT ETHIOPIA’S LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
The Mineral sector is regulated by multiple Proclamations and regulations for mining operations in
Ethiopia. Most recently, it has reviewed and developed mineral and petroleum policies, as well as
proclamations related to mining operations and transactions. All legal and regulatory documents can be
accessed and downloaded on the Ministry’s website.
9
you are now free to use the cadastre portal
8
receive email
from the momp
Licencing Office
confirming
update
7
wait for the
momp licencing
Office to update
your account
6 Set your
password
5 check your
email for link to
set password
4
upload scanned
copy of your
registration
form and
identity
3 fill in your
details on the
online cadastre
portal
download a
registration
form and
complete it
2
1
Go to:
https:/ /ethiopian.portal.
miningcadastre.com/
How to register
on the online
Ethiopian Mining
Cadastre Portal
1
Go to:
https:/ /ethiopian.portal.
miningcadastre.com/
How to apply for a
Mining Licence
log in to your
account2 3 Select
”new Application”
menu option
5 upload all
required
documents
4
follow the
instructions
carefully and fill
in all required
information
6 pay
application fee
7 upload
application
payment fee
receipt
momp reviews
application8 9
momp submits
application
to council of
ministers for sign
off and approval
10 momp grants
licence

44 45
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
THEME LEGISLATION
CORE MINING LEGISLATION
AND REGULATIONS
•	 Mining Operation Proclamation No. 678/2010 (as amended by
Proclamation No. 813/2013)
•	 Mining Regulation Proclamation No. 423/2018
•	 Transaction of Precious Minerals Proclamation No. 651/2009
TAX Income Tax Proclamation No. 979/2016
ENVIRONMENT Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Proclamation No. 299/2002
COMMERCIAL LICENCING Commercial Registration and Licencing Proclamation No. 980/2016
HUMAN RIGHTS AND
CIVIL SOCIETY
•	 Ethiopian Human Rights Commission Proclamation No. 210/2000
•	 Cooperative Society Proclamation No. 985/2016
•	 Organisations of Civil Societies Proclamation No. 1113/2019
•	 Establishment of Cooperative Association Proclamation
No. 274/2002
LAND USE
•	 Rural Land Administration and Land Use Proclamation No.
456/2005
•	 Expropriation of Landholding for Public Purposes and Payment
of Compensation Proclamation
LABOUR Labour Proclamation No. 377/2003
Transaction of Precious Minerals Proclamation
No. 651/2009
This Proclamation governs the conduct of
all transactions of precious minerals within
the territory of Ethiopia. Any person who has
been issued a licence in accordance with the
appropriate mining laws is not required to have a
certificate	of	competence	or	licence	pursuant	to
this Proclamation in order to sell locally or export
abroad the precious minerals it produces. It also
highlights	the	different	licences	for	precious
minerals as well as the eligibility, application and
obligations of said licences.
6.4.2  Tax
Income Tax Proclamation. No. 979/2016
This legislation supports the economic
development of the country. For mining it is
key because a mine site, oil or gas well, quarry
or other place of exploration or extraction of
natural resources is considered a permanent
establishment which is subject to provisions
under this Proclamation. It highlights the
different	schedules	of	income	and	obligations
to pay income tax. Comprehensive tax rates are
also listed. There are provisions for taxation of
licencees and contractors as well as provisions
for expenditure incurred during the phases of the
mining cycle.
Mining Income Tax Proclamation No. 53/1993
This Proclamation provides for the payment
of tax on income from mining operations. It
highlights	tax	allocations	for	different	operations.
For instance, large-scale mining operations will
provide allocations to joint federal and regional
governments while small-scale and artisanal
mining operations provide to regional states. The
joint federal – regional income tax from large-
scale mining operations is allocated based on a
50/50% ratio.
It also highlights that mining income tax from
large-scale operations is administered by the
Ministry of Revenue. The mining income tax law
gives power to adjust income and expenditures
between	affiliated	parties	to	the	licencing
authority while tax is administered by the revenue
authority.
Mining Income Tax (Amendment) Proclamation
No. 802/2013
The Mining Income Tax Proclamation was
amended to state that ‘’a large-scale mining
licence holder is subject to 25% of taxable
income’’ .
6.4.3  Environment
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
Proclamation No. 299/2002
This Proclamation prescribes that no person
shall commence any new development activity
under any category listed as a project without
an environmental impact assessment or
authorisation of the Environmental Protection
Authority. The Authority or the relevant regional
environmental agency may decide that the
possible	impact	of	the	project	is	significant	and
therefore that no EIA shall be carried out.
6.4.4  Commercial licencing
Commercial Registration and Licencing
Proclamation No. 980/2016
The Proclamation is applicable to any business
persons, sectoral associations, commercial
representatives and any other person engaged
in commercial activity. The provisions provided
include commercial registration and retrieval of
tax	identification	numbers,	registration	of	trade
names, obtaining a business licence, franchise
registration, determination of export and import of
goods and various penalties.
6.4.5  Human rights and civil societies
Ethiopian Human Rights Commission
Proclamation No. 210/2000
This	Proclamation	defines	the	objectives	of	the
Commission, the rules for appointing members,
the powers and duties of appointees, the rules
of procedure of the Commission as well as
administration of the Council of Commissioners
and	staff	of	the	Commission.	The	Commission
was formed in order to educate the public to be
aware of human rights, to see to it that human
rights are protected, respected and fully enforced
as well as to have the necessary measures taken
where they are found to have been violated.
This Proclamation gives provisions on rules
and procedures of the Commission, lodging
complaints, and remedies.
6.4.1  Mining legislation and regulations
Mining Regulation Proclamation No. 423/2018
This is the key legislation that regulates the
mining sector. It was amended in 2018. The
Proclamation seeks to enshrine the principle of
custodianship of the country’s mineral resources
by the Government; promote socio-economic
growth of the country; promote employment and
advance the social and economic welfare of all
Ethiopians; provide for security of tenure for all
investors in respect of exploration and mining
operations; and ensure that the country’s mineral
resources are developed in an orderly and
sustainable manner. The amendments provides
additional incentives, government participation,
royalty regulations, social responsibility as well as
the size of the licence area.
Mining Operation Proclamation No.678/2010 (as
amended by Proclamation No 813/2013)
This Proclamation promotes sustainable
development of mineral resources. It governs
the conduct of all mining operations and related
activities within Ethiopia. Its purpose is to
ensure that the country’s mineral resources are
developed in an orderly and suitable manner. Key
provisions state that no mining licences may be
granted within areas reserved for natural habitats
or national parks or within 500 metres from the
boundary of a village, city or water reservoir or
dam without the consent of the competent body.
It emphasises that a licence may be revoked if
there is a breach of the approved environmental
impact assessment, and safety and health
standards. The proclamation has in place
measures to ensure community development
plans are established within the licence area.
Even	after	a	mine	closure	certificate	has	been
issued the licencee must continue to monitor
environmental	effects
.

46 47
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Cooperative Society Proclamation No. 985/2016
This Proclamation provides for the creation,
registration and administration of cooperatives
and provides rules with respect to their
operations,	winding	up,	etc.	It	also	defines	the
objectives of a cooperative and provides for
the establishment of cooperative societies
unions and cooperative societies federations.
Cooperative societies may, according to their
nature,	be	established	at	different	levels	from
primary up to federation level. Any cooperative
society shall be registered by the appropriate
authority (i.e. the Federal Cooperative Agency,
or an organ established at regional levels to
execute the cooperative societies proclamation,
lead and regulate the cooperative sector). The
Proclamation also establishes a Cooperative
Advisory Council, which is accountable to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resource.
Furthermore,	the	Proclamation	defines	duties
of cooperative societies with respect to the
environment.
Organisations of Civil Societies Proclamation
No. 1113/2019
This new Proclamation is expected to create
an enabling environment for CSOs to carry out
their vital role, particularly in democracy building
and the promotion of human rights. It provides
for the formation of Civil Society Groups within
Ethiopia and its purpose is to regulate Civil
Societies Organisations to ensure accountability
and	maximum	public	benefit	from	the	sector.	This
Proclamation applies to organisations operating in
two or more regional states; foreign organisations;
organisations established in Ethiopia to work on
International, Regional or Sub-Regional issues
or not operate abroad; organisations operating
in the City Administration of Addis Ababa or Dire
Dawa; and charitable organisations established
by religious Institutions.
Establishment of Cooperative Association
Proclamation No.274/2002
This Proclamation guides the establishment and
governance of cooperative associations and
societies. It provides for the institutionalisation of
the cooperative movements and was developed
to establish the Federal Cooperative Commission
for organising, promoting and strengthening the
cooperative movement at national level.
6.4.6  Land use
Rural Land Administration and Land Use
Proclamation No. 456/2005
This Proclamation highlights that it has become
necessary to sustainably conserve and develop
natural resources and pass on to future
generations, through the development and
implementation of a sustainable rural land use
plan	based	on	the	different	agro-ecological	zones
of the country. The Proclamation provides for
the establishment of an information database
that enables the Government to identify the size,
direction	and	use	rights	of	the	different	types	of
landholdings in the country such as individual
and federal and regional states holdings. It also
provides for the resolution of problems that
arise in connection with encouraging individual
farmers, pastoralists and agricultural investors
and establishes a conducive system of rural land
administration.
6.4.7  Labour
Labour Proclamation No. 377/2003
This Proclamation acknowledges the importance
of a skilled and disciplined workforce to Ethiopia’s
industrialisation	efforts	and	improving	its	global
competitiveness by recognising the need to
create a favourable environment for investment.
It provides more obligations to employers,
increases the minimum working age, added
employee	benefits,	extends	probation	periods,
adjusts overtime work and payment, and provides
new rules on sexual harassment and sexual
violence.
6.5     ASM LICENCING, LEGISLATION
          AND REGULATIONS

6.5.1  Licencing
The MoMP issues two types of mining licence
that relate to artisanal mining.
They are:


(More details under types of licences on page 42).
The 2013 amendment to the Mining Operations
Proclamation	first	introduced	the	Special	Small-
Scale Mineral Operations Licence, and, at the
same time, reduced the maximum period for an
Artisanal Mineral Operations Licence from
9 years down to 2 years. These changes
encourage artisanal miners to see ASSM as a
stepping stone to other economic activities,
rather	than	a	final	destination,	and	to	encourage
them to upgrade their operation to a higher level
of mechanisation and increase productivity.
More detail can be found in Mining Operation
Proclamation No.678/2010 (as amended by
Proclamation No. 813/2013).
6.5.2  Royalties and taxes
Holders of an artisanal or special small-scale
licence are required to pay both royalties and
income tax at levels that are determined by laws
of the Regional State.
6.6     ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY
          REGULATIONS

Ethiopia is environmentally and socially sensitive.
Sustainable development is discussed in
Ethiopia’s Constitution, where the people’s
environmental rights are clearly stipulated. As
the Constitution indicates, the People of Ethiopia
have a right to improved living standards, as well
as a right to participate in national development
and, in particular, to be consulted with respect to
policies	and	projects	affecting	their	community.
In addition, the Constitution sets out that the
people of Ethiopia have the right to a clean and
healthy environment. If displaced or adversely
affected,	the	state	will	commensurate	monetary
or alternative means of compensation, which
could include relocation with adequate state
assistance.
1  AN ARTISANAL MINERAL OPERATIONS
   LICENCE
2  A SPECIAL SMALL-SCALE MINERAL
   OPERATIONS LICENCE

48 49
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
6.6.1  Environmental Impact Assessment,
rehabilitation fund and community
development
Applicants for any licences except a
Reconnaissance, Retention or Artisanal Mining
Operations Licence have to:
 Submit an environmental impact assessment;

 Allocate funds to cover the costs of
	 rehabilitating	the	environment	affected	by	its
 activities;

 Participate in planning community
 development initiatives with the people
 within the licence area, and allocate funds to
 pay for these initiatives.
More detail can be found in Mining Operation
Proclamation No. 678/2010 (as amended by
Proclamation No. 813/2013) and Environmental
Impact Assessment Proclamation No. 299/2002.
6.6.2  Environmental Impact Assessment
Under Ethiopian law, any mining or petroleum
project needs to undertake an Environmental
Impact Assessment. Any project that alters any
part of Ethiopia’s environmental, social, economic
or cultural conditions is required to obtain
approval from the relevant authority before it is
allowed to proceed.
A company wishing to initiate such a project is
required to conduct an Environmental Impact
Assessment of the project, and submit a report
of this assessment to the MoMP (or the relevant
regional agency) for review.
This report should be written up after consulting
any	communities	likely	to	be	affected	by	the
project, and should contain a summary written in
non-technical language.
At a minimum, an environmental impact study
report should explain:
 What the project is and what technological
 processes it involves;

 The content and amount of any pollutant that
 will be released at any stage;

 The source and amount of energy required;

 Information on likely trans-regional impacts;

 Nature and duration of all the estimated
 direct or indirect, positive or negative impacts;

 What measures the company will take to
 eliminate, minimise or mitigate any negative
 impacts;

 The company’s contingency plans in case of
 accident;

 How the company intends to monitor the
 project during both implementation and
 operation;

 How complete or accurate the information is
 on which the report was based.
By law, the MoMP (or the relevant regional agency
responsible) is required to issue a response within
15 working days of receiving the report.
They can either:
 Approve the project outright;
 Approve the project subject to certain
	 specified	conditions	being	fulfilled	or;
 Reject the project on the basis that a negative
 environmental impact cannot be satisfactorily
 avoided.
Please see Environmental Impact Assessment
Proclamation No. 299/2002 for more detail.
6.6.3  Environmental Impact Assessment
guidelines
Ethiopia has issued two sets of guidelines to help
mining or petroleum companies conduct their
assessments, and submit a report that has the
best chance of being approved.
1. The EIA Reporting Guide.
This guide will assist any company that is required
to submit an Environmental Impact Assessment.
The guide lays out the relevant sections that must
be included in the applicant’s submitted report,
thereby giving companies a comprehensive
understanding of the information required from
them, as well as the expected structure of the
applicant’s report.
2. The EIA Guideline for Mineral and Petroleum
Operation Projects.
This	guide	is	specifically	aimed	at	Mining	and
Petroleum Companies. It contains comprehensive
information about what impacts Ethiopia’s EFCCC
and	mostly	concentrates	on	the	different	kinds
or stages of mineral and petroleum operations.
It also informs on the level of mitigation that
the EFCCC expects. The aim of this guide is to
provide mining and petroleum companies with
valuable information on the EIA process, which
companies can then utelise in the early planning
stage of their project - thus ensuring they are well
positioned to achieve project approval.

(Reporting guides are available on the MoMP
website).
6.6.4  Regional Environmental Bureaus
Regional Environmental Bureaus are responsible
for environmental monitoring, protection and
regulation of all projects that fall under the
jurisdiction of the region. They ensure the
implementation of federal environmental
standards in their respective regions or, as
may be appropriate, issue and implement their
own, no less stringent standards. Regional
environmental bureaus periodically prepare
reports on the environment and sustainable
development of their respective regions and
submit to the EFCCC.
More detail can be found in Environmental
Protection Organs Establishment Proclamation
No. 295/2002.
Specific	to	mining	projects,	the	regional	and	city
administration mining authorities have the powers
and duties to review and approve the ESIA
reports of Special Small-Scale Mining projects,
for industrial minerals and Small- and Large-
Scale Mining projects for construction minerals.
The environmental approval letter obtained is
simultaneously used for the application and
obtaining of a mineral operations licence from the
regions and city administrations.
More detail can be found in Mining Operation
Proclamation No. 678/2010 (as amended by
Proclamation No. 813/2013).
Artisanal Mineral Operations Licences are
issued at the regions by considering the minimal
environmental requirements which are on
Environmental Management Guidelines for
Artisanal Mining in Ethiopia.
IMPORTANT ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
 Environmental Impact Assessment Proclamation No. 299/2002
 Commercial Registration and Licencing Proclamation No. 980/2016
 EIA Guideline for Mineral and Petroleum Operation Projects
 EIA Reporting Guide
 Environmental Management Guidelines for Artisanal Mining in Ethiopia
 Labour-Proclamation No. 1156-2011 revised
 Environmental Pollution Control Proclamation No. 300/2002

50 51
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
6.6.5  Environmental management
guidelines for artisanal miners
The MoMP has also taken steps to lessen the
environmental impact of artisanal mining by
providing a set of guidelines for artisanal miners,
local communities surrounding artisanal mining
sites and licencing authorities.
This guideline will help artisanal miners become
aware of the potential dangers of their activities
and help them mine in a more sustainable way.
It will also improve the management of the
artisanal mining sector by providing the licencing
authorities with a set of checks and balances they
did not previously have. (Guidelines available on
MoMP website).
6.6.6  Safety regulations
Every Environmental Impact Assessment must
include an assessment of the health and safety
impacts of the project. This includes both the
occupational health and safety impacts and
the health and safety impacts on the local
communities	who	might	be	affected	by	the
project’s activities. The EIA Guideline for Mineral
and Petroleum Operation Projects contains
helpful information for mining and petroleum
companies about the health and safety impacts
the Ethiopian government is most concerned
about.

6.6.7  Pollution
Under Ethiopian law, polluting the environment
is illegal, and the penalties for doing so are
clearly spelled out. Ethiopia follows the ‘polluter
pays’ principle and requires the person or entity
causing the pollution to pay for any clean up.

6.7     COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
To	foster	sustainable	investments	which	benefit
all stakeholders, mining companies are required
to contribute to a community development fund
in Ethiopia.
6.7.1  Community development
As has been the case for many years, applicants
for any mineral operations licence need to
participate in planning community development
initiatives with people within the licence area, as
well as allocate funds to pay for these initiatives,
as explained in Ethiopia’s Mining Operation
Proclamation No .678/2010 (as amended by
Proclamation No. 813/2013) and Environmental
Impact Assessment Proclamation No. 299/2002.
In 2019, Ethiopia issued a new directive which
provides guidance on how this process is to work,
and	clearly	specifies	both	the	duties	and	the
rights of all parties involved with the community
development fund.
6.7.2  Overseeing the community
development fund
While holders of any kind of mining operation
licence and the holders of an Exploration
Licence are all required to establish a community
development fund, the requirements are a little
different	depending	on	whether	the	licence	in
question is an Operation Licence or merely an
Exploration Licence.
When the fund is established by those who hold
a mining operation licence (for example, a Large-
Scale Mineral Operations Licence) a committee
must be established to oversee how the fund
is used. This committee should be comprised
of, among other individuals, representatives
IMPORTANT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REGULATIONS:
 Mining Operation Proclamation No. 678/2010 (as
 amended by Proclamation No. 813/2013)
 Mining Regulation Proclamation No. 423/2018
  Directive to regulate the allocation of a
 Community Development Fund
for	the	local	community,	various	local	officials
(including members of local mineral sector, the
Finance and Economic Cooperation Bureau, the
Women, Children and Youth Bureau) as well as
a representative for each mineral operations
licence holder who contributed to the fund. It is
responsible for consulting with the community
in order to identify the appropriate development
project that will be of the most value or use to the
community, and then making sure that the project
proceeds smoothly and without impediment.
When the fund is established by an Exploration
Licence holder, there is no need to establish
such a committee, and the fund is overseen by
the relevant licencing authority. It is, however, to
be	used	for	the	express	purpose	of	benefitting
the communities who are directly or indirectly
affected	by	the	exploration	activities.
For more detail about how the community
development fund is to be managed, please
see the Directive to regulate the allocation of
Community Development fund.
6.8    FISCAL REGIME
Ethiopia has some of the most attractive royalty
rates in Africa. The holders of Large-Scale Mineral
Operations Licences are required to pay royalties
at the following rates:
Royalties can sometimes be waived in special
circumstances. More detail can be found in
Mining Operation Proclamation No. 678/2010 (as
amended by Proclamation No. 813/2013).
The royalties that holders of artisanal, special
small-scale and small-scale licences are required
to pay are determined by laws of the Regional
State in which that licence is issued. Licencees
would need to contact the relevant regional
authority.	Corporate	income	tax	is	at	a	flat	rate
of 25%. A total of 60% of all mining tax revenues
from mining goes to the Ministry of Finance and
40% goes to the regional governments.
Miners	also	enjoy	some	benefits:	mining
companies	are	allowed	a	five-year	(from	start
of production) exemption from customs duties
and tax on imported equipment, machinery and
vehicles.
The Government is guaranteed a 5% minimum
equity stake in all mining projects.
6.8.1   Fiscal incentives
Ethiopia offers a comprehensive set of fiscal and
non-fiscal incentives to encourage investment
into priority areas, including:
 Customs duty exemptions of up to 100% on
 imports of capital goods for eligible areas of
 investment;
 Income tax exemptions for a period ranging
 between 1 and 9 years, depending on the
	 specific	activity	and	the	location	of	the
 investor;
	 Loss	carry-forward	for	businesses	that	suffer
 losses during the income tax exemption
 period for half of the tax exemption period;
 With the exception of a few products, no
 export tax is levied on Ethiopian export
 products;
 Duty Drawback Scheme, Voucher Scheme
 and Bonded Factory and Manufacturing
 Warehouse Schemes;
	 Various	non-fiscal	incentives	for	exporters;
 Guaranteed remittance of capital for
 foreign investors.
It is also important to recognise that
employers in Ethiopia are legally
required to take all occupational
health and safety precautions and
to abide by the health and safety
standards set by the relevant
authority. For more detail, please
see Labour Proclamation No.
1156/2011.
7% Precious minerals
6% Semi-precious minerals
5% Metallic minerals
4% Industrial minerals and salt
3% Construction minerals

52 53
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
 TYPE OF TAXES RATE
1 CORPORATE INCOME TAX 25%
2 TURNOVER TAX 2% and 10%
3 EXCISE TAX 10% up to 100%
4 CUSTOMS DUTIES 0% up to 35%
5 INCOME TAX FROM
EMPLOYMENT 0% up to 35%
6 WITHHOLDING TAX 10%
7 VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT) 15%
8 EXPORT TAX Nil (with exception of hides and skins - 150%)
9 ROYALTY TAX 5%
10 DIVIDEND TAX 10%
6.8.2  Taxation
The Ethiopian tax system comprises direct and indirect taxes. Direct taxes include personal income tax,
rental tax, withholding tax and corporation tax, among other taxes. The main types of indirect taxes are
VAT, customs duty, excise and turnover taxes. Main taxes are summarised in the table below.
6.8.3  Mineral operations incentives.
The	Mining	Operations	Proclamation	offers
various incentives for holders of a mining
and exploration licences to import duty-free
equipment, consumables, machineries and
vehicles. The Mining Regulation expanded these
incentives by allowing holders of an Exploration
Licence to import, free of customs duties and
taxes, a small six-seat aircraft or helicopter for
the purpose of collecting data. The incentive
is available only for holders of an Exploration
Licence who can import the small aircraft or the
helicopter on a temporary basis and re-export
it upon completion of the work, or who can
transfer the small aircraft or helicopter to another
Exploration Licence holder. These incentives
require the prior approval of the MoMP.
In addition, Exploration Licence holders are
subject to other customs and aviation rules
before and after importation of the small aircraft
or helicopter.
6.9     LAND ALLOCATION
All land in Ethiopia is considered public property.
Individuals, companies and other organisations
can, however, acquire the right to use land. There
are	two	broad	classifications	of	land	for	rent	or
lease purposes, namely rural land used mainly
for agricultural purposes, and urban land used
mainly for industrial purposes or other activities.
Land	lease	or	rental	rates	differ	from	region	to
region.

54 55
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
DOING
bUSINESS
IN ETHIOPIA
07
DOING bUSINESS
IN ETHIOPIA
7.
7.1     ETHIOPIA’S CITIZEN CHARTER
It has not always been clear to investors or to
the Ethiopian public what exactly the MoMP
does, what its values or objectives are, and what
services it is set up to deliver. To redress this
issue, the MoMP launched its own Citizen Charter
in 2018.
This Charter carefully outlines the MoMP’s service
delivery obligations, spelling out in detail the
services that Ethiopia’s citizens and the MoMP’s
clients generally (including foreign investors) are
entitled to expect from the MoMP. This charter
can be found on the MoMP’s website.
Citizen Charter kiosk and information:

As part of this launch, an information kiosk was
set	up	in	the	lobby	of	the	MoMP’s	federal	office	to
serve	as	the	first	point	of	contact	for	the	public,
investors, and any other stakeholders involved
with	or	affected	by	mining	operations	who	want
to know what their rights are, and levels of
service to which they are entitled. Any member
of the public, investor or other stakeholder will
be able to download all information they need
from the kiosk, and request appointments with
Ministry	staff.	In	addition,	they	will	also	be	able	to
complain about any service delivery failures or
violations of their rights by the MoMP. Complaints
are carefully tracked to ensure they are resolved
in a timely manner and that areas that need
improvement are acted upon to ensure the
enhanced service delivery of Ministry services.
7.2     VISITING ETHIOPIA AS AN
          INVESTOR
For	the	first	visit	to	Ethiopia,	a	business	visa	can
be obtained from an overseas diplomatic mission.

Visa requirements are highlighted below:
 Business or investment visas arerequired for
 all foreign visitors to Ethiopia, except for
 nationals of Kenya;
 Visa applications can be obtained at Ethiopia’s
 diplomatic missions overseas;
	 The	Ministry	of	Foreign	Affairs’	Department
	 for	Immigration	and	Nationality	Affairs	issues
 a residence permit to a foreign investor upon
 submission of an investment permit issued in
 their name;
 A foreign investor who is a shareholder
 of a company or branch company as well as
 expatriate personnel who have a work permit
 are entitled to get residence permit;
 Favourable visa terms for investors in
 industrial parks: A multiple entry visa valid for
 up to 5 years is given for foreign investors;
 up to 3 years visa for industrial park service
 providers, managers, board members and
 senior experts employed by foreign investors;
	 Through	its	International	Cooperation	office,
 the MoMP facilitates visa and residence
 permit processes in collaboration with the
	 Ministry	of	Foreign	Affairs.

56 57
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
7.3     HOW TO REGISTER YOUR BUSINESS

Depending on the type of business formation, investors need to take the following steps to register their
company after having contacted the Ethiopian Investment Commission (Information and Investment
Promotion Department) for information on procedures and entitlements.
These steps vary slightly depending on the business formation under which investors plan to operate
their business:
submit application
PROCESS AUTOMATION - LICENCING AND REGISTRATION MANAGEMENT PROCESS - PLC
INVESTORMoTCASHIER ETHIOPIAN INVESTMENT COMMISSION -
LICENCING AND REGISTRATION DEPT.
application form,
draft MoA, copy
of passport and
review
application
select company
name
provide
letter for
bank
letter of
interest
receive letter
of interest

provide info.
of banking
certification,
TIN and
authenticated
office	rental
get application
review result and
comments

pay commercial
registration and
investment permit fees
commercial
registration
and investment
permit
get commercial
registration
and investment
permit
issue
commercial
registration
and investment
permit
payment
review bank
certification,	TIN,	and
office	rental	agreement
banking
certification,	TIN	and
authenticated	office
rental agreement
MoT data base
get application,
review result and
comment

PASS
no no
yeS
yeS
PASSED?
STEP 1
Collect information from the Ethiopian Investment Commission (EIC) and the Investment
Promotion Department about requirements, incentives, etc.
STEP 3

Please submit the following:

•	A	completed	and	signed	application	form	(by	the
  investor, general manager or authorised person);

•	A	project	proposal	(business	plan);

•	A	copy	of	the	business	background	(company	profile);

•	A	copy	of	a	valid	passport,	and	an	investment/
  business visa to the Licencing and Registration
  Department.
STEP 3 - Please submit the following:
•	A	completed	and	signed	application	form	(by	the	investor,	general	manager	or	legally
  authorised person);
•	A	project	proposal	(business	plan);
•	A	copy	of	the	business	background	(company	profile);
•	A	memorandum;
•	An	article	of	association;
•	A	copy	of	a	valid	passport	and	an	investment/business	visa	of	each	shareholder	to	the
  Licencing and Registration Department.
STEP 4
Collect a bank letter from the Licencing and Registration
Department to get permission to open a foreign currency
account at the National Bank of Ethiopia.
STEP 5
Transfer/deposit cash into
the opened company bank
account.
STEP 6
Collect	a	confirmation
letter and a credit
advice from the bank.
STEP 7
Submit two recent passport-
sized photographs of the
investor.
STEP 8
Collect an investment
permit	certificate	from	the
Licencing and Registration
Department.
STEP 2
Collect an application form
from:
www.investethiopia.gov.et

or

The EIC information desk.
1  SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP
STEP 1
Download an application form from the Ethiopia Investment Commission website
(www.investethiopia.gov.et) or Information Desk.
STEP 2
Obtain a sample memorandum and an article of association, information about requirements
and incentives from the Investment Promotion Directorate.
2  PRIVATE LIMITED COMPANY (PLC)

58 59
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
Documents to be notarised and authenticated
include:
 A memorandum of Association;

 An article of Association;
	 A	certificate	of	origin;
 The minutes of resolution;
 A power of attorney;
 A business (investment) visa copy;
 A passport-size picture of the general
 manager.
Minimum capital requirements
For a joint venture company, the minimum
capital requirement is USD150,000 (or
USD 50,000 if it is architectural, engineering
works, related technical consultancy services,
technical testing and analysis, or publishing
company).
7.4     INVESTOR PROTECTION
Ethiopia’s legal framework provides mining
investors with a number of protections and
assurances designed to minimise their political
risk. Here are some of the most important
protections Ethiopia has for investors.
7.4.1  Expropriation protection
Ethiopia does allow land to be expropriated,
but only when doing so is in the public interest
and does not violate any other laws. There
are numerous laws that would prevent the
state expropriating an investor’s property. This
investment guarantee is enshrined in Ethiopia’s
Constitution,	in	certain	specific	investment	laws,
and in numerous investment treaties that Ethiopia
is party to.

7.4.2  Dispute settlement
Ethiopia’s Constitution as well as its investment
law guarantees the right of investors to lodge
formal complaints about the treatment of their
investments. The Bilateral Investment Treaties
(BITs) to which Ethiopia is party also provide
specific	dispute	settlement	mechanisms.
7.4.3  Repatriation of funds
Ethiopia’s investment law provides international
investors with the right to receive the remittance
of	their	profits,	dividends,	principal,	interest
payments and compensation paid, in a
convertible foreign currency at the current
exchange rate. This is, however, subject to the
investor’s meeting the requirements that the
National Bank of Ethiopia sets.
7.5     TRADE AGREEMENTS WITH
          OTHER COUNTRIES AND
          INVESTMENT TREATIES
Ethiopia has investment treaties in place with the
countries below. These treaties further enshrine
protections for international investors in Ethiopian
law.
In case a company is a subsidiary, the following additional documents shall be submitted:

In the case of a foreign company:
	 Notarised	legal	certificate	of	incorporation;
 Notarised minutes of resolution passed by authorised organ of the parent company authorising it to
 invest in Ethiopia;
 Notarised document of its memorandum and articles of associations or similar documents of the
 parent company;
 Notarised power of attorney of the agent.
In the case of a local company:
 A copy of memorandum and articles of associations;
	 A	commercial	certificate;
 The minutes of resolution passed by the shareholders;
 A notarised power of attorney of the agent.
All the requirements for PLC also apply to a shared company and joint venture.
Algeria
Austria
China
Denmark
Egypt
Finland
Germany
Iran
Israel
Italy
Kuwait
Libya
Netherlands
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tunisia
Turkey
Yemen
ETHIOPIA
3  SHARED COMPANY OR JOINT VENTURE
STEP 1
Collect/download application form from www.investethiopia.gov.et or EIC information desk.
STEP 3
Collect a bank letter from the
Licencing and Registration
Department to get permission to
open a foreign currency account
from the National Bank of Ethiopia.
STEP 4
Transfer/deposit	cash	into	the	specified	company
account.
STEP 5
Collect	a	confirmation	letter	and	a
credit advice from the bank.
STEP 6
Collect	an	investment	permit	certificate	from	the	Licencing	and	Registration	Department.
STEP 2
Submit a completed application form with a
project proposal (business plan), an authenticated
parent (mother) company documents and a new
company general manager’s valid passport and
business or investment visa to the Licencing and
Registration Department.
4  bRANCH MULTINATIONAL COMPANY
All documents whose sources are outside of Ethiopia shall be:
	 Authenticated	by	the	concerned	notary	office	and	the	Ethiopian	Embassy	in	the	relevant	foreign
 country;
	 Authenticated	and	registered	by	the	the	Ministry	of	Foreign	Affairs	of	Ethiopia.

60 61
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
IMPORTANT
AGENCIES AND
SUPPORTING
INSTITUTIONS
08
8.1     ETHIOPIAN MINERAL, PETROLEUM
          AND BIOFUEL CORPORATION
The Ethiopia Mineral, Petroleum and Biofuel
Corporation (EMPBC) is the state-owned oil and
mining company operating in Ethiopia. They may
be required to take an equity stake in petroleum
or mining projects.
The EPBC was established in 2015. Its key
objectives include, among other things, to:

	 Ensure	that	Ethiopia	benefits	from	its
 natural resources;
 Build the local capacity of the mining and
 petroleum sector and assist companies
 engaged in the sector;

 Invest in strategically important areas not
 addressed by the private sector;

 Contribute to the national economy;
 Engage in the investment, development and
 production of the mineral, petroleum and bio-
 fuel operations;
 Invest in petroleum, mining and bio-fuel
 operations carried out by private sector
 investors;
 Provide services and training to the
 mining and petroleum sector.
8.2     THE ENVIRONMENT, FOREST AND
          CLIMATE CHANGE COMMISSION
The Environment, Forest and Climate Change
Commission (EFCCC), formerly the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), is the federal institution
managing Ethiopia’s environment. It’s an
independent authority, acting outside



the main ministerial structures and reporting
directly to the Prime Minister. The EFCCC is
ultimately responsible for Environmental Impact
Assessments. They do, however, delegate that
task to regional bureaus for any projects that fall
under the jurisdiction of regional states and the
MoMP for projects that are trans-regional and
do not operate entirely in any one of Ethiopia’s
regions..
The agency originally established to safeguard
Ethiopia’s environment was the Environmental
Protection Agency in 1995. Since then, it has
been restructured twice in evolving attempts to
improve	its	effectiveness.	The	EPA	was	upgraded
to the Ministry of Environment and Forest in 2013,
before becoming the Environment, Forest and
Climate Change Commission in 2015.

The EFCCC in present form is designed to:
 Ensure that the environment objectives
 provided under the Constitution and
 the basic principles set out in the
 environmental policy of Ethiopia are
 realised;

 Establish a system for environmental
 impact assessment of public and private
 projects, as well as social and economic
 development policies, strategies, laws
 and programmes;

 Prepare a mechanism that promotes
 social, economic and environmental
 justice and channel the major part of
	 any 	benefit	derived	thereof	to	the
	 affected	communities;


IMPORTANT AGENCIES and
SUPPORTING INSTITUTIONS
8.

62 63
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  | INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |
 Reduce emissions of greenhouse gases;

 Coordinate the building of a climate resilient
 green economy;

 Establish a system for evaluating
 environmental impact assessments of
 investment projects submitted by their
 respective proponents, prior to granting
 permission in accordance with the
 Environmental Impact Assessment
 Proclamation;

	 Take	part	in	the	negotiations	and	ratification	of
 international environmental agreements;

 Establish an environmental information
 system;

 Promote and provide formal and non-formal
 environmental education programmes.

8.3     THE ETHIOPIAN INVESTMENT
          COMMISSION

The Ethiopian Investment Commission (EIC) is an
autonomous government institution accountable
to the country’s Investment Board, which is
chaired by the Prime Minister.
A Commissioner, who is also member of the
Board, heads the EIC. The main services provided
by EIC include:
 Promoting the country’s investment
 opportunities to foreign and domestic
 investors;
 Issuing investment permits, business licences
 and construction permits;
 Notarising memorandum and articles of
 association and amendments;
	 Issuing	commercial		registration	certificates	as
 well as renewals, amendments, replacements
 or cancellations;

	 Effecting	registration	of	trade	or	firm	name
 and amendment, as well as replacements or
 cancellations;
 Issuing work permits, including renewals,
 replacements, suspensions or cancellations;
	 Grading	first-grade	construction	contractors;
 Registering technology transfer agreements
 and export-oriented non-equity-based foreign
 enterprise collaborations with domestic
 investors;
 Negotiating and, upon government
 approval, signing bilateral investment
 promotion and protection treaties with
 other countries;
 Advising the government on policy
 measures needed to create an attractive
 investment climate for investors.
In addition, the EIC provides the
following	free,	confidential	and
customised services to investors:
	 Providing	information	on	sector-specific
 business opportunities, business incorporation
 procedures and related regulations, and
 employment regulations;
 Hand-holding and supporting the investor
 during the acquisition of land and utilities
 (water, electrical power and telecom services);

 Processing of loans and residence permit
 applications; approving environmental impact
 assessments studies for investment projects;
	 Issuing	of	a	tax	identification	number	(TIN).
8.4     OTHER RELEVANT STAKEHOLDER
          INSTITUTIONS

 Department for Immigration and Nationality
	 Affairs;
 National Bank of Ethiopia;
 Ministry of Trade and Industry Ethiopia.

64
INVESTOR GUIDE - MINING IN ETHIOPIA  |