seed_url: https://kemlu.go.id/files/repositori/56594/13_A%20New%20Outlook_%20Strengthening%20Cooperation%20between%20Canada,%20Indonesia%20and%20ASEAN%20in%20the%20Indo-Pacific.pdf
final_url: https://kemlu.go.id/files/repositori/56594/13_A%20New%20Outlook_%20Strengthening%20Cooperation%20between%20Canada,%20Indonesia%20and%20ASEAN%20in%20the%20Indo-Pacific.pdf
title: 13_A%20New%20Outlook_%20Strengthening%20Cooperation%20between%20Canada,%20Indonesia%20and%20ASEAN%20in%20the%20Indo-Pacific.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

The authors of this document have worked independently and are solely
responsible for the views presented here. The opinions are not necessarily those
of the Macdonald-Laurier Institute, its Directors or Supporters, or those of the
Foreign Policy Strategy Agency.
Copyright © 2021 Foreign Policy Strategy Agency and Macdonald-Laurier Institute.
May be reproduced freely for non-profit and educational purposes.
Cover photo credits: Unsplash / Wikimedia Commons

Contents
Foreword
Jonathan Berkshire Miller and Ben Perkasa Drajat  ................................................ 4
The rise of Asia and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific
Siswo Pramono  ................................................................................................................... 7
Europe and the Indo-Pacific
Rizal Sukma ........................................................................................................................ 17
Canada’s engagement in the Indo-Pacific
Jonathan Berkshire Miller  .............................................................................................. 21
Reinvigorating a Canadian-Indonesia partnership in the Indo-Pacific
Abdul Kadir Jailani  .......................................................................................................... 23
Indonesia and the pursuit of cooperation in the Indo-Pacific
Shafiah F. Muhibat  ........................................................................................................... 33
Strengthening Canadian economic engagement in the Indo-Pacific
Daniel Schwanen  ............................................................................................................. 40
ASEAN outlook on the Indo-Pacific and the economic opportunity for Canada
Leonard F. Hutabarat  ..................................................................................................... 46
Strengthening the bilateral connectivity of Indonesia and Canada through
the ASEAN outlook on the Indo-Pacific
Ben Perkasa Drajat  ......................................................................................................... 53
Papua as the gateway to trade and tourism activities in the Pacific
Melyana R. Pugu  .............................................................................................................. 59

4
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Foreword
Jonathan Berkshire Miller and Ben Perkasa Drajat
I
ndonesia and Canada have enjoyed nearly seven decades of diplomatic rela-
tions. Both states have also been increasing areas of convergence in recent
years, both bilaterally and through multilateral forums. As Canada looks to tilt
its outlook more purposely in the Indo-Pacific, it is only natural that a part -
nership with Indonesia – as one of the biggest democracies and the founding
member of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) – should be
enhanced.
This compendium of articles is an inaugural collaboration between Indone -
sia’s Foreign Policy Strategy Agency (known before as Policy Analysis and De -
velopment Agency) and Canada’s Macdonald-Laurier Institute. The volume,
the first of its kind, is aimed at two objectives. First, to highlight national
views in both Indonesia and Canada of their respective strategies for engag -
ing in the Indo-Pacific region. Second, and perhaps most importantly, these
essays also outline the importance of the bilateral relationship between Jakar-
ta and Ottawa, contextualized under the strategic rubric of the Indo-Pacific
partnership.
Indonesia has been a leader within ASEAN in promoting the development of
the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), which underscores for the first
time some of the organization’s shared values and norms in the context of the
Indo-Pacific. AOIP is the way in which ASEAN envisions the Indo-Pacific and
the guiding principles for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.
This is not an insignificant development. With cooperation and partnership
as key principles of AOIP , it adds weight to the growing consensus that there
is room both for ASEAN as the region’s central hub and regional architecture
alongside the need to view the interlinkages between states in the broader
Indo-Pacific.
For Canada, the traditional lens to look at such engagement has been through
the Asia-Pacific framing – defining the region largely through our experience

5
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
in the multilateral architecture. Canada was a founding member of the Asia-Pa-
cific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in 1990 and has been a dialogue partner
in the ASEAN Regional Forum since its formation in 1994. Aside from these
two main vehicles, Canada has been active in the international development
space over the years and is a member of the Asian Development Bank, and
more recently joined – while not before considerable internal debate – the
Chinese-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in 2017.
Yet, despite having key interest in a stable and rules-based region, Canada
seems late to both the Indo-Pacific game and in clearly and thoroughly ar -
ticulating its rationale to invest in the region compared with other middle
powers.
It’s time for a paradigm shift, and for Canada – along with its traditional part -
ners and allies – to assertively and unapologetically promote its interests in
the Indo-Pacific region. The amity between Canada and ASEAN should be an
ace card for Canada to use in the game as it is a testament to the recognition
of ASEAN centrality. The volatility in the region underpins the need for Cana -
da to work with our key democratic partners to push forward the rules-based
liberal order. There is not an option to stay on the sidelines. Canada can and
should play a role here to promote and stand for a free and open Indo-Pacific
vision to promote these shared interests.
It is our hope that this booklet will stimulate more discussions and thoughts
in both countries on the importance of Indonesia and Canada to work togeth-
er in the region for years to come.
Jonathan Berkshire Miller is the Director of the Indo-
Pacific Program at the Macdonald-Laurier Institute.

Ben Perkasa Drajat is Director and Head of the Centre
for Policy Analysis and Development of the American
and European Region at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Republic of Indonesia.

6
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Part I:
Indo-Pacific and the
Geopolitical Context

7
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
The Rise of Asia and
the ASEAN Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific
Siswo Pramono
T
his essay will discuss the rise of Asia and the ASEAN Outlook on the In -
do-Pacific (AOIP). While the increasing US-China rivalry has influenced
the way strategists from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
have crafted the AOIP , many have also anticipated the potential and prospects
that the geo-economic shift to Asia offers. AOIP is part of the ASEAN contribu -
tion in shaping the geopolitical shift to Asia.
The rise of Asia is real
In 2010, we saw an early sign of Asia’s rise. To be clear, I do mean the rise of
Asia as a whole, and not just the rise of China. For that reason, I am including
countries like Indonesia, India, and ASEAN member states, along with China.
We also need to pay attention to the strategically important role of developed
economies in the region, such as Japan, South Korea, Australia, and New
Zealand.
I will begin with a few statistics, specifically, the development of the G20’s
combined GDP-Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) from 2000 to 2020, along with
the projection to 2030. In 2000, Asian members made up 28 percent, North
America made up 30 percent, and the European Union made up 30 percent
of the G20’s total GDP . In 2020, 45 percent of the G20’s GDP was generated
by Asian countries. The portion of the G20’s GDP that comes from North
America has shrunk to 23 percent, and the portion from the European Union

8
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
to 20 percent. Ten years from now, in 2030, Asia’s portion of GDP for the G20
is projected to be 51 percent.
Asia’s growing portion of the G20’s GDP is sustained by China, but also relies
on the developing economies of India, Indonesia, and other ASEAN countries.
However, the contributions of the developed economies of Asia-Oceania, such
as Japan, South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand, are equally important.
Converging towards open-regionalism
What is particularly interesting is the level of Asian-Oceanian convergence.
To prove that this convergence exists, we need to compare, for instance, the
situation in 1990 with the one in 2019 – a span of about 30 years (Figure 1)
FIGURE 1: ASIAN CONVERGENCE: ASEAN IS “CATCHING UP” WITH
AUSTRALIA
Figure 1 uses Australia as a benchmark; it is the most stable country in the
region and its economy is also highly advanced. This exercise looks at the
ratio of GDP per capita (PPP) of every country in the region and compares it
with Australia’s at any given time (in this case 1990 and 2019). In so doing, it
demonstrates how economies like ASEAN members, China, Japan, and South
Korea have successfully “caught-up” with the Australian economy. As such, it
Source: GDP per capita PPP Asia Oceania 1990 – 2019, Oxford Economics Global Data Workstation, 2021, processed by PADA MoFA.

9
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
is evidence of economic convergence in East Asia and Oceania.
The 45-degree line in Figure 1 is a guide that positions each country’s GDP
per capita ratio to Australia’s in 1990 as compared to 2019. By comparing
each country’s position, one can observe whether their GDP per capita ratio
has increased or decreased in relation to Australia’s. Thus, for example, in
1990, the GDP per capita of Brunei Darussalam was almost three times that
of Australia’s, while in 2019 it decreased to only 1.5 times that of Australia’s.
So, in 2019, the position of Brunei was relegated into a commensurate point
located below the 45-degree line. The same interpretation applied to Japan.
Meanwhile, ASEAN countries (including Indonesia), as well as China and
South Korea have improved their GDP per capita ratio compared to Austra -
lia’s between 1990 and 2019. For example, Singapore’s GDP per capita ratio
was 1.25 times Australia’s in 1990, and improved to 1.90 times in 2019. As
such, Figure 1 shows Singapore in 2019 positioned in a commensurate point
above the 45-degree line.
The more economies are located on the 45-degree line or above it, the more
convergence is shown. When such a condition exists, the region is ready for
open regionalism. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, or
RCEP (a free trade agreement among Australia, Brunei, Cambodia, China,
Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, New Zealand, the Philippines,
Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, and Vietnam), which was concluded in
November 2020, is a good case in point. With the level of convergence among
its members that Figure 1 describes, RCEP could potentially become the larg -
est trading bloc in the world.
This level of complexity is why we should not reduce the rise of Asia to the rise
of China. With the level convergence described, the rise of Asia also means
the rise of India (even though India is currently not a party to RCEP), ASEAN
(Indonesia in particular), and many others.
Economic cooperation is the mantra of ASEAN
In East Asia – and in particular in ASEAN – the animo (or deep affection)
among the member countries has always existed in the economy and busi -
ness. From the day that ASEAN was established, the 1967 Bangkok Declara -
tion clearly mentioned that the focus of ASEAN cooperation was the economy
and culture. Political and security cooperation came much later.
At the time, due to tensions stemming from the Cold War, discussions about
possible political cooperation would have been deemed too sensitive. Only
four years later, however, ASEAN declared the region to be a “Zone of Peace,
Freedom and Neutrality,” which was meant to allow ASEAN member states to
preserve their independence and economic development.

10
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Political and security cooperation are strategically important, but because
most ASEAN member states are developing nations that are struggling for
economic advancement, the people of ASEAN – the middle class in particular
– are keen to engage in economic and business deals. This bias was confirmed
by a poll taken in 2018, the year that ASEAN formulated the ASEAN Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP). One of the poll results was that a majority of re -
spondents considered the economy to be the biggest contributor to a sense of
community among ASEAN citizens, overriding variables such as values, com -
mon vision, politics, or even geography (ASEAN Secretariat 2019).
In 2003, about 10 years after the establishment of the ASEAN Free Trade Area,
ASEAN launched the ASEAN Business Advisory Council (ASEAN-BAC). This
council’s mandate is to provide corporate feedback and guidance to strength -
en ASEAN’s efforts to promote economic integration. The establishment of
the council emphasizes that role of the private sector is becoming increasing -
ly important in Southeast Asia and beyond.
Corporations as determining actors in new
international relations
Of the 100 largest economic revenue generators in the world today, 29 of
them are states and 71 are corporations (see Babic, Heemskerk, and Fichtner
2018). Among the 71 largest companies, 25 are Asian, and this number is
growing quite rapidly. At the present, those Asian companies are mostly from
Japan, China, and South Korea. I anticipate that in the near future, big com -
panies from India, Indonesia, and Malaysia will also be on the list.
Through the pillar of the ASEAN Economic Community, ASEAN has intensified
its promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), start-ups, and
the attempts to incorporate them in the digital economy.
Economic and business aspects aside, as ASEAN member countries – and East
Asia more generally – are becoming more affluent, and as the region has been
able to remain relatively stable, the level of national resilience has also been
steadily improving. Of course some countries, like Myanmar and the Philip -
pines, are still working hard to improve their economic performance. Hope -
fully their attempts produce good results.
The Fragile State Index and the Human Development
Index
The Fragile State Index (FSI) is a tool that measures national resilience. In
general, the national resilience of Southeast Asian countries has improved
between 2006 and 2019. Stronger national resilience can strengthen regional
resilience. This positive development can be inferred from the annual Frag -
ile State Index that the Fund for Peace, a Washington-based research centre,

11
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
produces.
The Fragile State Index empirically assesses the level of a state’s fragility as
measured by 12 indicators. The index is a useful tool to measure national
resilience among ASEAN member states (Figure 2).
If the Fragile State Index curve slopes down (from a higher point into a lower
point) the particular country is moving away from a fragile condition into a
less fragile one. Conversely, if the curve slopes upwards, then a jurisdiction’s
level of resilience is worsening. On the resilience score, the curves of most
ASEAN countries tend to be sloping downwards, which means they are rela -
tively better off than they were 15 years ago.
A few countries are worth highlighting. The Philippines, for instance, went
from a total score of 77 to 83 (the curve slopes up overall). At the top of
the index for the entire 15-year period, Myanmar is the most fragile ASEAN
country. Singapore, already in the strongest position at the bottom of the
index in 2006, has improved its score further in the intervening years. The
red, upward-facing arrow points to a worsening resilience while the green
downward-facing arrow indicates an improving resilience.
FIGURE 2: IN THE LAST 15 YEARS, ASEAN MEMBER COUNTRIES HAVE
DEVELOPED REGIONAL RESILIENCE
On the human development index (HDI), all ASEAN countries have been im -
proving in the last 20 years. The HDI gives us a good picture of economic de -
velopment, in particular how a country is progressing on economic welfare.
In the case of ASEAN, all member states have improved their ranking on the
HDI, as depicted in Figure 3.
Source: Fund for Peace 2018, processed by PADA MoFA.

12
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
FIGURE 3: ASEAN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDEX 2000-2018
So, in the last 50 years of ASEAN development, we see that economic and
business cooperation has been progressing well. However, as an association
of developing countries, ASEAN still needs advanced economies as partners
for development.
ASEAN needs to develop strategic ties with both the
US and China
ASEAN has established free trade agreements (FTAs) among themselves (AFTA
or the ASEAN Free Trade Area). While the AFTA has improved intra-trade
among ASEAN members, it’s not effective enough to attract foreign direct
investment. That is why ASEAN needs to enhance economic cooperation with
other partners in the region and other advanced economies. The need to
improve its strategic partnership with advanced economies, such as China
and the US, despite the animosity between the latter two, has always been
important for ASEAN.
As such, since 2015 Asia’s rise has been coupled with the increasing strategic
rivalry between the United States and China. The animosity materialized into
a trade war, and has now become a technological war as well. The rivalry was
made more complicated with the fragile situation in the East China Sea and
the South China Sea. Specifically, the US increased freedom of navigation op -
erations (FONOPs) in these two seas and China deployed missiles to the Para-
cel Islands and established military facilities on some of the islands it claims
as its territory. Military brinkmanship contributed to several incidents involv -
ing US and Chinese warships. Worse, China refused to accept the Permanent
Court of Arbitration’s ruling on its dispute with the Philippines. The region is
also bedevilled by other crises, including the Indonesia-China stand-off over
Source: UNDP Human Development Report 2020, processed by PADA MoFA.

13
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
the Natuna Islands and the Vietnam-China stand-off over Vanguard Bank (the
longest stand-off in the last decade).
However, despite the increasing number of crises, regional economic con -
vergence has safeguarded economic cooperation in the region, as previously
discussed. Statistics show that total trade and inflows of foreign direct invest -
ment (FDI) from China, South Korea, and other developed economies to the
region have not been affected by these regional incidents.
China and the US need ASEAN more than ever
Interestingly, the flow of foreign direct investment to China has ceased – and
in fact has turned negative. Even before the 2018 trade war with the US, the
influx of FDI to China had long been decreasing, likely due to the increasing
price of labour on the mainland. This has meant that China needs the region -
al market to compensate for the lack of FDI.
Coupled with the speculation (or calculation) that the US-China strategic
rivalry – the trade war in particular – would turn from bad to worse, big
corporations are under pressure to decide whether they are going to stay
in China or diversify their value chain by investing in neighbouring regions
and beyond. Their options include, among others: to relocate from China, to
stay in China while opening a production branch outside China, or simply to
reduce their production in China while increasing their production at their
subsidiaries outside of China.
The trend of diversifying away from China was made partly for economic
reasons, including the increasing salary of China’s workforce. Further, the
outbreak of COVID-19 in China has revealed the vulnerability of the current
global value chain, which has also pushed companies to consider relocating
their businesses.
As such, while majority of American companies would likely to continue do -
ing business in China, a 2018 poll shows that those who wish to relocate
would likely move to ASEAN member countries rather than to other regions
(Hayat 2019). ASEAN is a good choice for a diversified global value chain due
to its improvement in regional resilience (i.e., political stability), large and
growing market (i.e., the regional economic progress), and the fact that the
regional economy is increasingly convergent.
All the above developments were among those considered in the delibera -
tions during the formulation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP)
in 2018. The AOIP was adopted in June 2019, a short two years later.

14
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Underlining the reasons for an inclusive AOIP
2018-2019 were crucial years for the formulation of ASEAN’s vision of the
Indo-Pacific:
• The US-China strategic rivalry intensified under President Donald Trump.
The two major powers “raced to the bottom” as the rhetoric of “American
First” became a policy of Chinese containment and evolved into a trade
war. This resulted in more FONOPs in the East and South China Seas,
alongside China’s increasing assertiveness and bullying towards its small -
er neighbours.
• Power projection by these major powers toward the Pacific Ocean and
Indian Ocean have intensified. Brinksmanship and military posturing in
the East and South China Seas run the risk of miscalculation that can lead
to unexpected incidents.
• Indonesia and ASEAN member states are located in the fulcrum of In -
do-Pacific, but are struggling to maintain their autonomy.
• For Indonesia and ASEAN, choosing between the US and China would
violate the longstanding principles of the Zone of Peace, Freedom and
Neutrality (ZOPFAN) and the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation. Worse,
such a choice is deeply prejudicial to the strategic needs of development
partners.
• As an economic community, ASEAN’s main interest is to promote econom-
ic development, of which strategic partnerships with the US, China, and
other partners must be maintained at least, and improved if possible.
• The debates on AOIP were not immune from the strategic development
of 2018-2019, namely, the rise of Asia, which has been cemented with
the conclusion of the ASEAN-based Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership (RCEP). RCEP has the potential to develop into the world’s
largest trading bloc. Indonesia and its ASEAN counterparts will likely see
the Indo-Pacific from this outlook.
• AOIP , as a practical vision, must be able to help transform ASEAN into
a competitive production base and an indispensable part of the global
value chain.
The Indo-Pacific as part of ASEAN’s vision
The AOIP promotes four clusters of cooperation, each focusing on business
and economic cooperation:

15
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
• Since the realm of the Indo-Pacific is the “seascape” of the Pacific and In -
dian Oceans, maritime cooperation should be the main priority.
• As reinforcing the master plan of ASEAN Connectivity 2025 is a prerequi -
site for transforming ASEAN into a competitive production base and an
essential part of the global value chain, connectivity should be a focus of
cooperation.
• With ASEAN embarking on green and sustainable development, coopera -
tion on Sustainable Development Goals  should be another priority.
• Last but not least, economic cooperation  that can address development
gaps in ASEAN is also important. Such cooperation encompasses, among
other things, small and medium-sized enterprises, the digital economy,
and preparing the region for the fourth industrial revolution.
Conclusion
We understand the anxiety about the Indo-Pacific among the major and mid -
dle powers in North America and Europe. The nagging question for them is
whether Asia’s rise is going to change the rules of the game as we know them
today. What will happen with the liberal world order?
Asia, particularly the group of developing countries in ASEAN, cannot survive
alone. We need the world. In recent Asian history, the so-called Asian Tigers
were the beneficiaries of the liberal world order. Partnership with Europe
and North America has always been strategically important for cooperation in
technology, finance, and investment.
It is a fact that a reform of the world order is needed so that the global com -
munity can keep up with strategic change, geopolitical and otherwise. That
is why the UN, the WTO, and other international agencies representing the
current global order and architecture have reform on their agendas. But all
the reforms must be rules-based, inclusive, and be part of the spirit of alliance
of multilateralism.
Ultimately, the message emerging from both the rise of Asia and the ASEAN
Outlook on Indo-Pacific is that the region needs to have more constructive di-
alogue, more cooperation, and more partnerships with the rest of the world.
Siswo Pramono is Director General/Head of Foreign
Policy Strategy Agency (Policy Analysis and Development
Agency) at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic
of Indonesia.

16
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
ASEAN Secretariat. 2019. Poll on ASEAN Awareness 2018 . PoAA Report. ASE -
AN Secretariat. Available at https://asean.org/asean2020/wp-content/up -
loads/2021/01/Poll-on-ASEAN-Awareness-2018-Report.pdf.
Babic, Milan, Eelke Heemskerk, Jan Fichtner. 2018. “Who is More Powerful
– States or Corporations?” The Conversation , July 10. Available at https://the -
conversation.com/who-is-more-powerful-states-or-corporations-99616.
Fund for Peace. 2018. Fragile States Index. Fund for Peace. Available at https://
fragilestatesindex.org.
Hayat, Raphie. 2019. Leaving China: Which Countries Might Benefit from
a Relocation of Production?  RaboResearch, August 8. Available at https://
economics.rabobank.com/publications/2019/august/leaving-china-coun -
tries-might-benefit-from-relocation-production
Oxford Economics Global Data Workstation, 2021, https://data.oxfordeco -
nomics.com
United Nations Human Development Programme. 2021. Human Develop -
ment Report 2020: The next frontier: Human development and the Anthro -
pocene. United Nations Human Development Programme. Available at http://
hdr.undp.org/en/2020-report.

17
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Europe and the
Indo-Pacific
Rizal Sukma
A
s we enter the third decade of the 21st century, the shift in the world’s
centre of gravity from West to East has become a key characteristic of
global politics. That shift has been primarily due to, and shaped by, the rise
of China. As the shift has also led to more competitive relationships among
major powers, global and regional powers have begun to re-assess and re -
conceptualize the strategic space where such competitive relationships take
place. That space is no longer confined to East Asia. It has expanded to
include the wider Indo-Pacific region; a region that integrates two strategic
oceans – the Pacific and Indian Oceans – as a single strategic unit.
Within that context, confining their role to only within the East Asian region
no longer makes any strategic sense for global, major, and regional players.
They began to articulate their views and strategy on how they want to shape
the new strategic space of engagement: the Indo-Pacific regional order. For
example, the US, China, India, Japan, and Australia have all come up with
their own vision of how the region should be restructured. The Association
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), at the 34th ASEAN Summit in June 2019
in Bangkok, also articulated its own collective view, one called “the ASEAN
Outlook on Indo-Pacific” or AOIP . The participants agreed, in light of the on -
going strategic changes in the region, that ASEAN needs its own vision about
the future of the regional order – one that represents ASEAN’s distinct view
and voice.
Key European countries have also taken a deep interest in the Indo-Pacific
region and have begun to incorporate the growing importance of the re -
gion into their foreign and security policies and strategies. Three countries
have articulated their vision for the region: France (which calls it a strategy),

18
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Germany (which calls it guidelines) and the Netherlands (which calls it a
non-paper). The fact that three key EU members have made the case for a
common EU approach toward the Indo-Pacific within such a short time is
commendable, and the EU has recently adopted an official common view in
fall 2021 Another European power, the United Kingdom, which just exited
the EU, has also formalized its approach towards the Indo-Pacific with the
launching of its “Integrated Review of Security, Defense, Development and
Foreign Policy” in March 2021.
Why are European countries interested in the Indo-
Pacific?
The recent surge of interest among key European powers in Indo-Pacific
affairs clearly reflects the growing importance of the region. Even though
the EU has played its role primarily as a civilian or normative power in the
Asia-Pacific, it does have wide-ranging interests here. In fact, countries like
France and Great Britain can even be considered “resident” powers, as they
still maintain a physical presence and historical ties in the region. British
Indian Ocean Territory, for example, is part of Britain’s overseas territories
in the Indo-Pacific. Around 1.7 million British citizens live across the region.
Many countries in the region are part of the Commonwealth, and Britain also
maintains a military presence through military assets and facilities in Oman,
Bahrain, Singapore, and Brunei. France also has overseas territories in the
region, and around 1.5 million French citizens live across the Indo-Pacific. It
also has 8000 French soldiers stationed there (Nouwens and Mohan 2021).
There are at least five reasons why the Indo-Pacific has become attractive
to the EU and the UK. First, there are geopolitical reasons. This European
“pivot” to the Indo-Pacific, as mentioned earlier, reflects the growing under -
standing in Europe that the world’s geo-economic and geopolitical centre of
gravity has shifted from West to East. The future of Europe’s prosperity and
security increasingly depends on the geopolitical and geo-economic dynam -
ics of the Indo-Pacific. More importantly, the Indo-Pacific also serves as an
emerging arena where great powers, especially the US and China, will define
the future and the nature of their bilateral relationship. That, in turn, will
affect the interests of many other countries.
Second, economic interests and opportunities abound in the region, and
Europe wants to tap the benefits. Asia accounted for more than 60 percent
of global economic growth in 2018 and 2019 according to the International
Monetary Fund. German exports to the Indo-Pacific rose by 7 percent in re -
cent years. About a fifth of all Dutch imports comes from Asia. The Indo-Pa -
cific is also important to Britain’s economic interests. Britain has growing
bilateral trade relations with all key economies in the region, especially with
China, Japan, South Korea, India, and ASEAN. Britain is also one of the larg -
est sources of foreign direct investment in the region. European countries

19
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
realize that they could benefit immensely from close economic cooperation
with the Indo-Pacific countries.
Third, the growing awareness of the geopolitical and economic importance
of the Indo-Pacific is reflected in the third reason for Europe’s interest in
deepening its engagement in the region, namely, the desire to maintain a
rules-based order and preserve the importance of multilateral arrangements,
both in political-security and trade. Members of the EU, especially Germany,
France, and the Netherlands, have strategic interests in “the defence of mul -
tilateralism” and “freedom of trade and access to the common spaces that are
essential to [their] security and prosperity’” (Esteban and Armanini 2021).
The EU and the UK both believe that their interests can be better served if the
region continues to be open, inclusive, and rules-based, where multilateral
institutions remain the main platform for cooperation.
Fourth, Europe’s pivot to the Indo-Pacific is also driven by reasons of security,
especially maritime security. Keeping shipping routes safe will be crucial to
Europe’s trade with the region and beyond. About 90 percent of global trade
is conducted by sea, with two-thirds of it passing through the Indo-Pacific. It
is estimated that between 8 and 12 percent of all trade by the UK, Germany,
and France passes through the South China Sea.
In this context, European countries also see that keeping the Indian Ocean
and the Pacific Ocean “free and open” is in their interests. This clearly sug -
gests that the two oceans are crucial transport lanes between Europe and
East Asia that ensure the supply of energy, food, and commodities. Histori -
cally, maritime trade has been of paramount importance for Europe, where
the annual value of trade between the EU and Asia in 2019 amounted to 1.5
trillion. More importantly, 50 percent of the EU’s total maritime trade passes
through the Indian Ocean (Iuppa 2020, 7).
The fifth reason is the imperative of diversification. As Europe’s economic
relationship with China grew rapidly and substantially, excessive reliance on
China has also become a concern in many capitals of EU member states. Po -
sitioning itself as a power that engages with the entire Indo-Pacific region
would give the EU a better platform to expand and deepen its relationship
with other regional powers. This is why the EU and the UK want to strength -
Europe’s pivot to the Indo-Pacific
is also driven by reasons of security,
especially maritime security.

20
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
en their relations and cooperation with India, Japan, and the middle powers
in the Indo-Pacific (especially Australia, South Korea, and ASEAN member
states).
The characteristics of the European approach
While individual European countries might have different views regarding
the Indo-Pacific, they do share several characteristics. First, present in all
visions and understandings of the Indo-Pacific is the emphasis on the rules-
based international order. It implies that the rise of China somehow will
have profound impacts on the existing (liberal) international order. What
those impacts are is not very clear, and a few European countries might have
different views on this issue. Yet, the EU pivot to the Indo-Pacific is the con -
sequence of the rise of China as a great power. Deeper engagement with the
Indo-Pacific reflects the recognition that the EU needs to respond and shape
the changes taking place in the area.
Second, the EU tends to embrace an “inclusive” approach, not too dissim -
ilar from the ASEAN’s approach to the Indo-Pacific. The EU is cautious and
clearly aware of the sensitivity surrounding the concept and seemingly wants
to avoid any unnecessary misperceptions regarding its approach to the In -
do-Pacific. The EU does not want to alienate China. In fact, it wants to strike
a balanced approach. For example, it will “work with China on climate and
stand up to China on human rights.” The question, however, is whether Bei -
jing will welcome this approach. How the EU resolves the tension in such an
approach remains to be seen.
Third, at the same time, the desire to be inclusive means that this approach
lacks clarity. If the EU’s goal is to contribute to stability in the Indo-Pacific by
positioning itself as a bridge, it is not clear how it can play that role. The key
issue in the Indo-Pacific is the growing Sino-US strategic rivalry. What is EU’s
role here? Can and will the EU support the US? Or will the EU build a third
force that tries to mitigate and moderate the rivalry? If so, how will the EU do
that? These are the key crucial questions that need to be answered, not only
by the EU but by other powers as well.
Conclusion
Key European countries have declared that they want to intensify and deep -
en cooperation and engagement with Indo-Pacific countries. We have heard
this sort of declaration many times before. However, the question remains
whether Europe is really interested in the Indo-Pacific as a strategic region.
There have been suggestions that it is only interested in China. Therefore, in
order to remove this doubt, the EU needs to address the issue as it imple -
ments its strategy. It needs to demonstrate and convince the regional coun -
tries that Europe’s commitment to an inclusive, open, and free Indo-Pacific

21
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
is real and genuine.
Two unique challenges face the EU’s outlook and policy on the Indo-Pacif -
ic. The first is the challenge of convincing China that the EU’s pivot to the
Indo-Pacific is not meant to contain a rising China. Second, the EU will do
well if it works with ASEAN member states to reconcile its own vision and
approach on the Indo-Pacific with that of the ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific.
After all, both the EU and ASEAN emphasize the importance of inclusiveness
and multilateralism in their respective visions of the regional order in the
Indo-Pacific.
Rizal Sukma is a Senior Fellow at the Centre for Stra -
tegic and International Studies, Jakarta. From 2016
to 2020 he was Indonesia’s Ambassador to the United
Kingdom, Ireland, and the International Maritime Or -
ganization (IMO) in London, England.

22
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
Esteban, Mario, and Ugo Armanini. 2021. “European Indo-Pacific Strategies:
Convergent Thinking and Shared Limitations.” Elcano Royal Institute, March
10. Available at http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_en/
contenido?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/asia-pa -
cific/ari30-2021-esteban-armanini-european-indo-pacific-strategies-conver -
gent-thinking-and-shared-limitations.
Iuppa, Giulia. 2020. An ‘Indo-Pacific Outlook’ for the European Union. Brief -
ing Paper, July. European Institute for Asian Studies.
Nouwens, Veerle, and Garima Mohan. 2021. “Europe Eyes the Indo-Pacific,
But Now It’s Time to Act.” War on the Rocks, June 24. Available at https://
warontherocks.com/2021/06/europe-eyes-the-indo-pacific-but-now-its-time-
to-act/.

23
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Canada’s
engagement in the
Indo-Pacific
Jonathan Berkshire Miller
T
he Indo-Pacific is a pivotal region that has arguably become the world’s
centre of geo-economic and geostrategic gravity. Indeed, the true litmus
test for the rules-based order will be its ability to evolve and withstand the
challenges in the Indo-Pacific in the coming years. The COVID-19 crisis has
only heightened these challenges and proven the need for Canada to develop
a robust, comprehensive, and multipronged approach to the region.
This region, which connects the vast oceans of the Pacific and the Indian
along with the states in between, is not a new geostrategic concept. Indeed,
scholars and practitioners in the region have been using the idea of a broader
geographic region – rather than more traditional subsets such as East Asia,
South Asia, or the more expansive Asia-Pacific – for more than a decade. An
Indian naval captain began using the concept in geopolitical terms over a
decade ago, but the terminology has not been limited to scholars in Delhi.
Japan’s former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, back during his first stint as prime
minister in 2007, spoke to India’s parliament about his country’s vision for
the Indo-Pacific. During that visit, he noted a “confluence of the two seas” and
pressed for a need to transcend the traditional frameworks that had often
separated or minimized the geopolitical connections between South Asia and
the Indian Ocean region with that of East Asia and the Pacific.
While other countries have since developed Indo-Pacific approaches, it is cru -
cial to remember that the intellectual origins of this kind of strategic thinking

24
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
came from the region itself – especially from policy-makers and officials from
Japan, India, and Australia – and will largely continue to evolve based on the
strategic interests and resulting policy approaches from regional states. That
said, other states invested in the Indo-Pacific have also been developing ap -
proaches to the region in recent years, including the United States, Germany,
France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and others. These approach -
es, while not identical and obviously premised on unique national interests,
largely converge on a range of shared pillars – principally the need to main -
tain a rules-based system in the region that prioritizes the peaceful settlement
of disputes and follows international law. These approaches also underscore
the importance of open and transparent infrastructure development in the
region so as not to burden donor-recipient countries with heavy debt for in -
frastructure projects that don’t serve their long-term interests.
The importance of understanding the regional origins of the Indo-Pacific con -
cept, including its articulation as a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) first
introduced by Japan, is essential for modifying an incorrect (yet often stated)
framing of the FOIP – that is merely a hard stick created by the United States
to curtail China’s rise. This narrative, which is often spun by detractors of
Canada following through on an Indo-Pacific strategy of its own, misses the
complexities of other states in the region and their shared interest in the FOIP
principles that are often aligned, but not completely congruent, with those
of the United States.
Indeed, the rules-based liberal international order in the Indo-Pacific now
faces serious challenges on a number of fronts: the rise of protectionism
and widespread authoritarianism, the growing skepticism about liberal val -
ues, and the malfunctioning of international institutions. These concerns are
symptoms rather than a cause of the current stress on the international sys -
tem. In the developed economies, there has been a widening income dis -
parity gap and, consequently, disenfranchisement from citizens who are not
benefitting from the financial successes of globalization. This has partially led
to the growth of populist rhetoric and new political voices aimed at securing
this “lost” part of the electorate in a range of countries in the West and be -
yond.
These economic tensions and dissatisfaction with the inequities of current in -
stitutions have been inflamed by simultaneous challenges in the geopolitical
landscape, with growing strategic rivalries and the marginalization of interna -
tional law as a means of solving disputes. Helping to magnify these divisions
even more is the rapid growth of digital tools and the intentional misuse of
these capabilities – such as social media or cyber tools being used for misin -
formation campaigns and to launch influence and interference operations.
Advances in digital technologies have radically improved convenience across
all aspects of society, from state administration and industry to individual

25
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
lifestyles, and they have already reached an irreversible level. At the same
time, however, negative phenomena such as cyberattacks against various tar -
gets, fake news, interference in the elections of other countries, and national
surveillance and data hoarding by authoritarian states have been adversely
affecting the international order. The only peaceful way forward is for the in -
ternational community to construct common rules compatible with advances
in digital technologies.
Moreover, the international rules-based order is also adapting to a rapidly
evolving security environment with a host of territorial disputes, growing
strategic rivalries, and the development of cutting-edge military technologies.
The Indo-Pacific, in particular, is facing a host of shared security challenges,
from maritime piracy and crime to heated territorial disputes. In this vast
maritime space – stretching from East Africa to the Pacific Island chains – the
foundations of regional commerce and security are achieved through free -
dom of navigation and secure sea lines of communication. The governance
of the region, which can’t be limited to a maritime framework, relies on se -
cure supply chain connectivity and sustainable development that is done in a
transparent and equitable way.
There is significant economic opportunity in the region, especially given the
large economies and diverse, fast-paced growth in many middle-sized econ -
omies. The Indo-Pacific is now home to a growing web of important trade
agreements that signal greater economic integration. Most importantly, there
is the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partner -
ship (CPTPP) – a highly ambitious trade deal involving 11 economies in re -
gion, including Canada. In addition, the Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership (RCEP) features other large economies not represented in the
CPTPP , such as China, South Korea, Indonesia, and Thailand. Both agree -
ments reassert the centrality of Southeast Asia as a trading hub and centre for
regional integration. Alongside this economic growth is a large demand for
infrastructure development in the region – some estimate the need for more
than US$4 trillion in such developments over the next 20 years. Several pow -
ers that have the ability to do so could fill this void by working with states in
the region to fund these projects sustainably, based on fair-lending, transpar -
ent institutions, and long-term planning.
The imperative to diversify to our
like-minded partners in the Indo-
Pacific has never been stronger.

26
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Yet, there remain a number of key challenges to the rules and order that
have underpinned security and prosperity for states in the Indo-Pacific. In the
South China Sea, Beijing continues to undercut international law and aims
to subjugate its neighbours through extensive land reclamation, the impo -
sition of military equipment and infrastructure, and the diplomatic splitting
of states in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Meanwhile,
Beijing also continues to raise regional concerns from its constant incursions
into the maritime and airspace surrounding Japan’s Senkaku Islands in the
East China Sea. China has also been ramping up its belligerence against its
other neighbours, including increasing tensions at an alarming rate with In -
dia along its disputed borders, and raising its coercion tactics against Taiwan.
An increasingly confident and assertive China, in addition to other regional
challenges such as North Korea’s growing nuclear weapons capabilities, have
amplified a number of tripwires in the region that could, depending on their
resolution, stall or upend the trajectory of the Indo-Pacific’s transformation.
While the Indo-Pacific concept is not new to many states in the region, the
discussion of it and its convergence with Canada remains at a nascent stage.
Indeed, Canada’s traditional regional lens has long been framed in terms of
the “Asia-Pacific” or “East Asia,” rather than from an Indo-Pacific angle. Con -
textualizing this framing is important. Up until this point, the focal points
of Canadian engagement have been premised on the multilateral forums
through which it is engaged. Examples of this include Canada being a found -
ing member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). Canada also is a long-standing Dialogue Partner
with ASEAN and a member of the ASEAN Regional Forum. More recently, Can-
ada has joined other organizations, including the Asian Infrastructure Invest -
ment Bank (AIIB).
To date, for the past several decades this multilateral underpinning of Can -
ada’s engagement has been decidedly “Asia-Pacific” in its focus. Yet it has
become increasingly clear that, while many forums in which Canada tradi -
tionally engages remain relevant, its approach to the region is antiquated
and in need of significant policy evolution. Some detractors might argue that
Canada should not look at developing an Indo-Pacific approach because it
would betray our commitment and experience to organizations and partner -
ships centred around the Asia-Pacific, such as ASEAN and its related bodies.
The short answer to these critics, however, is that the development of an In -
do-Pacific approach in line with FOIP principles is not mutually exclusive or
meant to replace our traditional engagement in the region. To the contrary,
the development of an Indo-Pacific approach – which Ottawa is currently un -
dertaking – would complement Canada’s current strategy by clearly outlining
the stakes and interests Canada has in this pivotal region.
A frequent critique from stakeholders and officials in the region is that Can -
ada must take a more consistent and comprehensive approach that demon -

27
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
strates an investment of time and capital that goes beyond mere trade and
investment. Specifically, there is a need and desire – at least from most states
– for a strong Canadian voice on political-security developments in the region,
be it maritime security, nuclear non-proliferation, or the plethora of non-tra -
ditional security challenges facing the region. This is where the tenets, rules,
and values that form the basis of the emerging Indo-Pacific frameworks will
help Canada better serve its interests and promote its role.
Canada must become more engaged in the region in order to both profit
from the region’s economic dynamism but also ensure that its interests in the
Indo-Pacific are protected by enhanced participation on political and securi -
ty issues. As Canada’s former foreign minister, John Baird, once noted: “We
cannot afford to be a spectator. We know we have a contribution to make in
shaping the future of Asia and Canada’s role in it. We know that Canada must
take an active role in this part of the world. It’s simply not a choice; it’s not
an option; it’s a national imperative” (Baird 2012). In sum, an antiquated
“trade-first” strategy that downplays security challenges in the region is no
longer tenable.
Canada is not alone in grappling with these challenges and it will be impera -
tive for the country to work ever more closely with such partners as the Unit -
ed States, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and the EU, as
well as with emerging partners India, ASEAN, and so on. Canada often under -
estimates itself and its ability to build resiliency away from non-transparent
markets, such as that in China. The imperative to diversify to our like-minded
partners in the Indo-Pacific has never been stronger. This challenging period
has also brought clarity of purpose and it should be seen as an awakening
that will enable Canada to reorient and rethink about the nature of its part -
nerships and priorities in the Indo-Pacific, and build an appropriate strategy
to underpin this shift.
Up until this point, successive Canadian governments have failed to lay out
a clear strategy for how Canada can develop a robust role in the Indo-Pacific.
Yet this crucial region will likely shape the world’s future. On the one hand,
the Indo-Pacific contains four of the world’s five largest economies and over
half of global GDP . On the other, it also plays host to some of the most signif-
icant challenges to the rules-based international order, including managing
China’s increasingly assertive behaviour, North Korea’s nuclear weapons pro -
gram, tensions between India and Pakistan, conflicts over freedom of the seas,
and much more. The threats and opportunities emanating from the region
present Ottawa with a compelling need to engage the region more substan -
tively. Through stronger collaboration with allies and partners, there is an
opportunity for Canada to transform its role.
Jonathan Berkshire Miller is the Director of the Indo-
Pacific Program at the Macdonald-Laurier Institute.

28
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
Baird, John. 2012. “ Address by Minister Baird to Canadian Council of Chief
Executives,” Foreign Affairs Canada, September 24. Available at https://www.
canada.ca/en/news/archive/2012/09/address-minister-baird-canadian-coun -
cil-chief-executives-933829.html.

29
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Reinvigorating a
Canada-Indonesia
Partnership in the
Indo-Pacific
Abdul Kadir Jailani
A
decade ago, the term “Indo-Pacific” was almost absent from the dis -
course of international relations. But today the term is widely used to
describe a geopolitical construct. It refers to the dynamic between the Indian
and Pacific Oceans in which major powers, wealthy economies, and advanced
regional blocs are trying to redefine their strategic visions, particularly as they
relate to each other.
Indeed, the region continues to experience geopolitical and geostrategic
shifts. The game-changer is quickly becoming the rise of China. Triggered by
the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) unveiled in 2013 by China’s President Xi Jin-
ping, the Trump administration subsequently announced the Free and Open
Indo-Pacific (FOIP) initiative to counter China’s global strategy.
According to the US, the BRI constitutes a grand strategic vision to seek he -
gemony in the region, rather than being merely a series of infrastructure
projects with smaller developing nations. Against this backdrop, the FOIP
assumes that China’s economic and military rise is an international challenge
that should be dealt with collectively. There is a shared belief that the growing
influence of China challenges the international “liberal” rules-based order.
Therefore, protecting this rules-based order should be at the heart of FOIP .

30
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Furthermore, anchored in the logic of containing Chinese power, FOIP is in -
herently imbued with an exclusionary and militaristic approach.
Indonesia, however, believes that cooperation in the Indo-Pacific should not
be framed merely under the logic of containment. At the same time, coopera -
tion should not exclude a formal partnership that helps to solidify US military
predominance in the region. For Indonesia, in a region that needs leadership,
rivalry should not consume space for collaboration. This is particularly im -
portant as the geopolitical interplay comes at a time when the Indo-Pacific is
still grappling with various traditional and non-traditional security challenges,
particularly the COVID-19 pandemic.
Moreover, as one of the founding members and key players in the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Indonesia believes ASEAN centrality is
paramount as “the manager of regional affairs.” ASEAN must not be seen as
passive and at a standstill when it comes to the dynamics of the region. To
that end, Indonesia has played a leading role in encouraging ASEAN to face
the security challenges of the region.
Indonesia has called for ASEAN member states to develop a strategic commit -
ment to cope with the Indo-Pacific as a geopolitical reality, and requests that
every matter pertaining to it is best addressed through ASEAN mechanisms.
To begin, ASEAN first needs to understand and identify how the regional bloc
can leverage and adjust the competing visions of the Indo-Pacific. In this spir -
it, at Indonesia’s initiative, in June 2019 ASEAN adopted the ASEAN Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP).
The AOIP reflects ASEAN’s collective will to sign up to neither a China-centric
order nor to a US-led strategic confrontation with China. Instead, it seeks a
third way of managing differences through rules, non-coercion, and regional
diplomatic institutions centred on ASEAN. Its inclusive character means that
the AOIP  emphasizes engagement with all states in the region without excep -
tion. Such an inclusive vision will make ASEAN the only acceptable platform
for external powers to engage with in this pivotal region.
Canada’s way forward
The AIOP is essentially a strategic outlook that embraces “middle players” –
key countries that are neither China nor the United States. In this context, it
offers tremendous opportunity for a country like Canada to become more
visibly engaged by playing a more active and consistent role in the region.
Throughout its history, Canada’s diplomatic, military, cultural, and econom -
ic orientation has focused on the North Atlantic. It is now time for Canada
to start realigning itself to reflect a new reality – that the world’s centre of
geo-economic and geostrategic gravity has moved from the North Atlantic to

31
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
There is ample room for Canada to
build greater synergy and closer
collabo ration with Indonesia.
the Indo-Pacific.
By increasing its engagement in the Indo-Pacific, Canada can benefit from the
region’s economic dynamism while also ensuring its interests are protected. A
robust strategy for dealing with the political, security, strategic, and economic
aspects of the Indo-Pacific region is becoming necessary, if not inevitable.
Subsequently, Canada should also look for opportunities to become more
intertwined with the growing regional groupings in the Indo-Pacific. In this
regard, a strengthened strategic collaboration with ASEAN is clearly the most
viable option. Canada can best accomplish this collaboration by recognizing
ASEAN’s centrality and leadership within the Indo-Pacific. Any collaboration
should continue to promote the two sides’ shared interests through existing
ASEAN mechanisms, in which Canada has been very active.
Canada’s Indo-Pacific approach must complement the AIOP and be done
in a manner that advances the country’s national interest. It also needs to
embrace the AIOP principle of inclusivity. A “normative alignment,” by com -
mitting to the non-competitive regional order in Indo-Pacific, clearly offers
valuable opportunities for Canada.
Canada can build upon its excellent bilateral relations with Indonesia by hav -
ing a more intensive engagement in the implementation of the AOIP . Not only
has Indonesia played a pivotal role in the development of the AOIP , but it is
also in a good position to support Canada’s accession to the East Asia Sum -
mit, which will serve as the principal platform to address issues related to the
AOIP’s implementation.
Canada can contribute by helping to strengthen regional governance and
rules of law as well as addressing common challenges such as climate change,
water security, and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Such engage -
ment will also help reinforce Canada’s presence in the region.
There is ample room for Canada to build greater synergy and closer collabo -
ration with Indonesia, namely, by expediting the realization of an ASEAN-Can-
ada free trade agreement, mitigating the consequences of the COVID-19
pandemic, and boosting the digital economy at a regional level, to name a
few. If successful, the Indonesia-Canada partnership would serve as a good

32
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
global example of the way in which countries can accelerate the post-pan -
demic economic recovery.
A reinvigorated Indonesia-Canada partnership can offer positive and con -
structive solutions to various challenges in this dynamic region. Such coop -
eration will also further emphasize the excellent bilateral relations the two
countries have had for almost seven decades. A stronger Indonesia-Canada
partnership will not only enable both countries to stand the tests of our time
and emerge stronger together, but also reinforce ASEAN’s centrality within
the Indo-Pacific.
Abdul Kadir Jailani is Director General for Asia Pacific
and African Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Republic of Indonesia.

33
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Indonesia and the
Pursuit of Cooperation
in the Indo-Pacific
Shafiah F. Muhibat
I
ndonesia’s place in the wider world has evolved profoundly since the end
of Cold War. The country is now facing new actors, or actors with changed
characteristics, new threats, new institutions, new platforms of engagement,
and new arenas for state competition and cooperation. Many of these chang -
es are courtesy of technological advancement.
Amidst the ongoing international changes, Indonesia has become quite com -
fortable relying on the status quo for its foreign policy. Historically, Indone -
sia’s foreign policy doctrine, “ bebas aktif” or “free/independent and active,”
has served as a permanent compass to guide the country’s foreign affairs
since its independence (Hatta 1953). This overarching doctrine has translat -
ed to a number of distinct policies, including the establishment of the Associ -
ation of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
ASEAN remains Indonesia’s traditional diplomatic vehicle. It is true that Indo -
nesia has adapted its foreign policy in various ways – by introducing narratives
such as the moderate Muslim-majority democracy rhetoric in the 2000s, the
zero-enemies-thousand-friends slogan, and the much covered Global Mari -
time Fulcrum. Yet none of these narratives have changed Indonesia’s inclina -
tion for the status quo, which has kept the country loyal to its core principle
of bebas aktif.
Now the question is: has that approach allowed Indonesia to be sufficiently

34
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
adaptive and flexible so it can effectively face the latest international and re -
gional challenges?
Indonesia and the Indo-Pacific
Although the Indonesian lexicon has long recognized the connectedness of
the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean, the discussion about the “Indo-Pacific”
per se started to readjust the existing narrative with the current great-power
competition that began in the 2000-2010s. During his presidential campaign
in 2014, Joko Widodo moved the discussion forward when he introduced his
vision of the Global Maritime Fulcrum. He described Indonesia as being the
fulcrum of the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean, thus portraying his country as
a significant geostrategic player in the Indo-Pacific.
In November 2014, after he became president, Widodo went on to share his
Global Maritime Fulcrum with regional counterparts at the 9th East Asian
Summit. The term “Indo-Pacific” was used for the first time in the Indonesian
Foreign Ministry’s five-year strategic plan published in April 2015. Following
this, Jakarta then hosted the Indian Ocean Rim Association’s High-Level Fo -
rum in the first trimester of 2017.
Coincidentally, the Indo-Pacific soon became a buzzword for the region. The
United States made a relevant introduction of the term at the Asia-Pacific Eco -
nomic Cooperation (APEC) CEO Summit in Da Nang, Vietnam, at the end
of 2017; this event coincided with the release of the US National Security
Strategy (NSS), which outlined the US Indo-Pacific Strategy (IPS). Japan and
Australia (to name a few countries) followed the lead of the US IPS by using
the Indo-Pacific term, which had a significant impact on Southeast Asia.
In response to this trend, Indonesia opted to push for a collective outlook on
the Indo-Pacific – one that could help address the gravity of the challenged
posed by great power politics. In the ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Retreat in
2018, Indonesia conveyed its intention to work collaboratively on a collective
outlook for the Indo-Pacific.
I have previously discussed that Indonesia’s involvement in the Indo-Pacific
narrative is to an extent a response to the increasing tension stemming from
great power rivalry (Muhibat 2019). Southeast Asia has been on the receiving
end of competing narratives on the Indo-Pacific driven by major actors. The
concern, however, has been that the competing narratives have not really
served Southeast Asia’s interests, yet are increasingly shaping the geopolitical
dynamic of the region.
In particular, Indonesia sees the US Indo-Pacific approach, which in the 2017
NSS implicitly portrayed the Indo-Pacific region as a main battleground with
its so-called adversaries and competitors, as a threat to ASEAN centrality.

35
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Moreover, the Quad narrative, which was presented as a potential strategic
coalition (consisting of the US, India, Japan, and Australia), sent a strong sig -
nal that it might contest ASEAN centrality when the time is appropriate. This
pushed Indonesia to respond by initiating talks with its regional counterparts
on adjusting its geostrategic environment.
On the other hand, since China introduced its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI),
that country has been the major player in infrastructure projects in South -
east Asia. Southeast Asian states have different relations with China, including
with regards to BRI. Some are more welcoming than others, but there are
general concerns about over-dependence on China. This is, to be fair, also the
case with how Southeast Asian states view other major powers’ connectivity
strategies (Muhibat and Kharisma 2020).
Moral values that have many different interpretations – such as democracy
and human rights, as promoted by the Indo-Pacific narratives of the great
powers – could also be inferred as one of the driving forces for Indonesia’s
eagerness to have a regional collective outlook. There is an emerging belief
that such values could be used to stifle the engagement of certain Indo-Pacific
countries that do not uphold the same standard as the great power.
Working through ASEAN and the ongoing challenges
On June 23rd 2019, the ASEAN Summit adopted the ASEAN Outlook on In -
do-Pacific (AOIP). It has four key elements: the integration of the Asia-Pacific
and Indian Ocean regions; the promotion of dialogue and cooperation in -
stead of rivalry; development and prosperity of all; and the importance of the
maritime domain in the regional architecture (Parameswaran 2019). Areas of
collaboration include maritime cooperation, connectivity, sustainable devel -
opment, and the economy.
According to the AOIP , the regional architecture is envisioned to include con-
cepts such as “inclusivity,” “collective leadership,” “ballast for the current dy -
namism,” “inclusiveness,” alongside an effort to “liberate” ASEAN from the
views of competing great powers. The AOIP , to some extent, is also seen as
an effort to connect with and empower other potential partners. As this is a
regional document, ASEAN fully intends to recognize the presence of non-
ASEAN-led mechanisms and non-ASEAN countries through a region-to-region
approach. It manifests in the point where AOIP looks for “cooperation with
other regional and sub-regional mechanisms in the Asia-Pacific and Indian
Ocean regions.”
While it has been applauded as an important breakthrough, AOIP has also
disappointed many of those who had high expectations of the strategy. AOIP
does not explain what measures it will take in response to any escalation of
conflict in the region, even though regional peace and stability are deemed

36
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
necessary to guarantee this region’s sustainable growth. In addition to that,
the AOIP should be understood as the way ASEAN guards its members and
the region from the growing competition now evident between great powers.
To quote a review critical of AOIP: it is “less as a security-driven phenomenon
and more as an economic and connectivity-linked construct” and like “old
wine in a new bottle” (Ha 2019).
Two years after its conception, the promotion of AOIP is no longer as grand as
it was in the past. Identification of the existing and forthcoming hot spots are
necessary before differences in the Indo-Pacific region can be bridged. These
hot spots include, among others, the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, and
the Korean Peninsula. The issues vary and range from traditional challenges
– building overseas military bases, the race for potential regional submarines,
nuclear warheads, increasing freedom of navigation operations by the great
powers – to non-traditional ones.
Seeking more cooperation
We see several trends in the geopolitical “downturn,” i.e., dwindling trust
towards multilateral forums, unilateral and populist foreign policy, and de -
creasing global leadership. On the first point, there is apparent dissatisfaction
with the way international organizations have dealt with newer challenges.
In 2021, COVID-19 has intensified these trends. States are preoccupied with
managing the outbreak in their respective countries, thus giving less priority
and fewer resources to international issues because all are exhausted dealing
with issues related to the pandemic. Moreover, restriction of movement has
decreased interaction among states; countries have closed their borders and
meetings and negotiations have been put on hold.
During the pandemic, especially in its early phase, there was international
outcry over how the World Health Organization handled the health crisis.
Perhaps as a backlash to this, more states have opted for unilateral measures
in foreign policy and have promoted populist policies. In the last few years,
the role of being the provider of public goods and the sponsor of collective
efforts appears to have diminished, especially for the state(s) with the capac -
ity to do so, like the United States.
What does this say about the Indo-Pacific? Indonesia sees the Indo-Pacific
through a particular lens – specifically, its need for a stable order in the re -
gion to maintain the life and growth of the state and its people, as well as to
ensure that its borders and sovereign rights are respected by others. That is
why its aim is eventually an Indo-Pacific that has less competition and rivalry,
and more cooperation.

37
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Of course, any Indo-Pacific regional architecture for Indonesia cannot and
should not undermine ASEAN’s centrality in regional affairs. The Indo-Pacific
constructs and mechanisms can co-exist with Indonesia’s own preference for
multilateral institution building. From Indonesia’s point of view, emphasiz -
ing ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture is necessary to establish a
rules-based order and prevent extra-regional powers from shaping the region.
But back to our original question: is this sufficient to allow Indonesia to adapt
to current international and regional challenges? The answer is no. The In -
do-Pacific is important, and Indonesia made the right move to shift focus to
the larger Indo-Pacific. However, it will need a more comprehensive and in -
novative strategy to face the current challenges. Now, in 2021, the Indo-Pacific
is a different arena for state competition and cooperation than when ASEAN
was first developed.
Shafiah F. Muhibat is the Head of Department of
International Relations at the Centre for Strategic and
International Studies (CSIS) Indonesia.

38
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
Ha, Hoang Thi. 2019. “ ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific: Old Wine in New
Bottle?” Perspective. ISEAS Yushof Ishak Institute, June 25. Available at https://
www.iseas.edu.sg/images/pdf/ISEAS_Perspective_2019_51.pdf.
Hatta, Mohammad. 1953. “Indonesia’s Foreign Policy.” Foreign Affairs, 31, 3
(April): 441-452.
Muhibat, Shafiah F. 2019. Indonesia and Indo-Pacific: Seeking the Proper Re -
sponse to Great Power Politics. SWP Working Paper, Research Division Asia /
BCAS 2019, November. Available at https://www.swp-berlin.org/publications/
products/projekt_papiere/BCAS_2019_Muhibat_Indonesia_and_Indo-Pacific.
pdf.
Muhibat, Shafiah F., and M. Waffaa Kharisma. 2020. “Connecting the In -
do-Pacific: ASEAN Amidst Compating Connectivity Strategies.” In Bart Gaens,
Meghan Sharma, and Patrick Ruppel, eds, Responding to the Geopolitics of
Connectivity: Asian and European Perspectives. Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung
Singapore.
Parameswaran, Prashanth. 2019. “ Assessing ASEAN’s New Indo-Pacific Out -
look.” The Diplomat, June 24. Available at https://thediplomat.com/2019/06/
assessing-aseans-new-indo-pacific-outlook/.

39
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Part II:
Indo-Pacific and
the Economic and
Development Context

40
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Strengthening
Canadian economic
engagement in the
Indo-Pacific
Daniel Schwanen
I
n coming years, Canada and countries of the Indo-Pacific region will seek to
recover from the damage brought by the COVID-19 pandemic, by investing
in and facilitating economic activities that can raise their respective peoples’
standards of living.
During the pandemic, technological change accelerated worldwide, some
elements of global supply chains as well as domestic social infrastructure
have been exposed as fragile, and concerns for environmental sustainability
remained at the forefront of public agendas. At the same time, geopolitical
tensions and economic rivalries among leading powers, and disenchantment
with globalization in some countries experiencing slow increases in stan -
dards of living, have led to the rise of more nationalistic economic policy
approaches.
In this context, a strengthening of ties between Canada and the rising “middle
power” countries of the Indo-Pacific – and for simplicity’s sake I will concen -
trate here on Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) economies at
the core of the Indo-Pacific region – can benefit both parties, by affording
each more ways to navigate the shoals and benefit from tremendous tech -
nology-led economic opportunities post-COVID, and in general giving each

41
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
country more options and room to manoeuvre to chart its specific develop -
ment course.
Given these common interests, there is a lot of room for the development of
mutually beneficial ties. Canada and ASEAN economies each have comple -
mentary strengths in natural resources, agri-food, other manufacturing, and
services such as tourism, logistics, software, and finance as Dan Ciuriak and
I noted elsewhere ( Schwanen and Ciuriak 2020 ). Trade in medical devices,
pharmaceuticals, as well as digital trade, and the development of related tech-
nologies, seem particularly ripe for growth given the circumstances of the
past two years.
For all this bilateral trade potential, it would be a mistake to limit our thinking
to how much more we can export bilaterally to each other. The focus must
be on how Canadian investors, talent and skills, resources, and providers of
services can work together with partners in the Indo-Pacific to better access
and succeed together in world markets, not just in our respective domestic
markets.
Be it through a new Canada-ASEAN agreement, currently being mooted, or
even bilateral agreements with countries interested in “going deeper” in facil -
itating these interactions, or through new countries joining the Comprehen -
sive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), Canada
and countries of the Indo-Pacific could enhance their respective global com -
petitive positions by working together more closely and purposefully.
What’s holding us back? It would be fair to say, unfortunately, that Canadian
engagement with the region, in the sense of a continued and prioritized polit-
ical and commercial attention, has been sporadic. This attitude has bedevilled
Canada’s approach to the Asia-Pacific more generally, despite efforts of some
think tanks and good diplomatic relations. For example, Canada was very late
in entering the type of economic arrangements that its competitors in the
region, like the United States, the European Union, or Australia, embraced
with more gusto.
The cause of that sporadic attention is surely Canada’s natural focus on the
United States, which is the market for nearly 70 percent of its exports of
goods and services. That focus is unsurprising given Canada’s geography, its
Canada and countries of the Indo-Pacific
could enhance their respective global
competitive positions by working together.

42
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
comparative advantage in natural resources (alone of the G7 economies), the
long-standing integration of both countries’ manufacturing, and the (pre-pan-
demic) ease of movement of skilled and business people between the two
countries.
Canadians have encountered many successes in the US market in sectors en -
compassing financial, educational, cultural, and transportation services, as
well as exports of research and development, in addition to more traditional
agriculture and manufacturing trade. Canada boasts a highly educated pop -
ulation and its tech sector has been growing by leaps and bounds – the per -
centage increase in the stock value of Canadian tech companies on Toronto’s
stock exchange has risen as fast as that of the six US-based “big tech” compa -
nies since 2016. Canada is also a significant net source of direct investment
capital around the world.
Despite these successes, Canada does not grow enough small companies
into bigger ones, which hurts the country’s productivity performance overall.
More Canadian companies need to seek growth outside of the North Amer -
ican or European markets if Canada is to benefit from areas of likely higher
growth opportunities globally. This is, or should be, a major incentive for
Canada to strengthen its links with the Indo-Pacific, in addition to wanting to
level the playing field in the region with traditional competitors.
Conversely, the strong Canada-US links should be a major incentive for econ -
omies in the Indo-Pacific to strengthen trade and investment relations with
Canada. While two ASEAN member states – Singapore and Vietnam – already
have freer trade with Canada through the CPTPP , a Canada-ASEAN agreement
would help build a more resilient, flexible, and competitive platform for firms
from Canada and ASEAN countries to access regional and global markets.
Through their negotiating experience with Australia and New Zealand, and
now with the European Unions, ASEAN member states would already have
dealt with a range of sensitive issues with economies and societies roughly
comparable to Canada’s. At the same time, a Canada-ASEAN agreement may
offer a fresh opportunity to deepen bilateral trade rules with Canada on ar -
eas of specific interest, such as digital trade or the temporary movement of
workers.
Such agreements open doors, but businesses need to walk through those
doors to see how they can take advantage of them in practice. To capture the
potential benefits of more open trade and investment between them, Canada
and the ASEAN economies would need to facilitate the way for companies
and institutions to take advantage of new opportunities.
While Canada can boast hundreds of thousands of residents whose country of
birth is the Philippines or Vietnam, let alone China or the major economies of

43
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
South Asia, it does not have anywhere near the same links with other major
ASEAN economies proportionately to their population. This can be a disad -
vantage in developing stronger trade links.
Yet common grounds for dialogue abound. For example, Canada has much
more in common with Indonesia than is often realized – think vast and
dispersed geography and populations, the role of provinces in economic
governance, cultural diversity, the challenge of managing, developing, and
exporting natural resources, or even health policy challenges.
A specific Canada-Indonesia series of exchanges could help build beneficial
business and institutional links around finding solutions to common prob -
lems or working together on a common vision of the opportunities in sectors
such as transportation, communications, and other services, or infrastructure
investments. In the past, Canadian businesses have found doing business in
Indonesia tough, but both countries could learn from each other to make
the regulatory environment more predictable. Notably, Canadians would be
interested in knowing more about the recently passed Omnibus Law on job
creation in Indonesia, which would help foster bilateral links.
Canada could similarly foster bilateral approaches with other countries in the
Indo-Pacific, focused on practical matters that would be key to benefitting
from future agreement. The focus would include:
Fostering business-to-business linkages : Facilitate and track growth in joint
business and/or research ventures and trade in commercial services includ -
ing digital trade and movement of skilled personnel. These collaborations,
investments, and exchanges should be seen as indicators that Canada and its
partners are building more robust and competitive economies together.
Encouraging small and growing businesses : Reduce trade, information, fi -
nancing, and technology adoption costs for small businesses and foster a wel -
coming environment for micro-multinationals. Taking these steps will foster
growth in small businesses, which is essential to raising living standards in
the diverse economies of Canada, Indonesia, or the Philippines.
Collaborating on infrastructure, tourism and sustainable resources : Inno -
vate around new goods and services and sustainable activities based on our
Canada could similarly foster
bilateral approaches with other
countries in the Indo-Pacific.

44
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
respective resources and adapt our logistics and infrastructure to take advan -
tage of new post-COVID trends in demand, including demands for safety and
security and public services.
Seeking to share and jointly develop leading-edge technologies and skills
and their beneficial applications : Sponsor fairs and virtual marketplaces
around specific themes such as health, clean energy, and the use of artificial
intelligence. Open these initiatives to businesses, research institutions, and
professionals operating in Canada or ASEAN member states.
In short, common interests and joint economic potential abound. During the
strains on global trade in recent years, and during the COVID crisis in par -
ticular, we have seen how Canada can collaborate with like-minded partners,
including those in the Indo-Pacific, to maintain a rules-based international
system that is as open as possible – a goal vital to future economic progress
of so many of our economies.
Building on this experience, Canada and countries of the Indo-Pacific need
to foster stronger economic linkages between them. These links would help
them realize not only their hoped-for rebound post-COVID, but also strength-
en their competitive positions globally, and provide safety and reliability to
each other as customers in an age that is lacking both.
Daniel Schwanen is Vice-President of Research at the
C.D. Howe Institute.

45
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
References
Schwanen, Daniel and Dan Ciuriak. 2020. “Canada and ASEAN Trade Agree -
ment can Foster Economic Recovery, Development and Well-being.” CD Howe
Institute, August 25. Available at https://www.cdhowe.org/intelligence-mem -
os/schwanen-ciuriak-–-canada-and-asean-trade-agreement-can-foster-eco -
nomic-recovery.

46
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
ASEAN Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific
and the economic
opportunity for
Canada
Leonard F. Hutabarat
E
conomic engagement and the need to boost trade relations between Can-
ada, Indonesia, and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
remain an important endeavour. Canada could engage Southeast Asia in an
economic framework by establishing a regional trade agreement or increased
bilateral trade with a particular country in the region. ASEAN, as a leading
regional organization, could propose to have a regional free trade agreement
(FTA) with Canada, especially in light of its position as one of Canada’s im -
portant trade partners. Meanwhile, as the biggest market in Southeast Asia,
Indonesia could also suggest the negotiation of a bilateral trade agreement
with Canada.
Canada’s engagements in a regional trade agreement
It is very crucial for Canada and Indonesia, as well as ASEAN, to have a vision
for the next five-year partnership. The way Canada engages with ASEAN coun-
tries today can be seen in the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement
for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). This trade agreement connects Canada

47
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
to ASEAN member’s countries, such as Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore,
and other major Canadian partners in the region, including Japan.
In addition to the CPTPP , Canada also plays a role in the United States-Mex -
ico-Canada Trade Agreement (USMCA), which replaced the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). This agreement is a formal and established
way for Canada to penetrate big markets in the North American region. As
well, Canada engages European Union (EU) countries under the Compre -
hensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), through which both parties
enjoy reduced tariffs and which makes it easier to export goods and services,
thereby benefitting people and businesses in both the EU and Canada.
Since the CPTPP agreement entered into force, Canada became the only G7
nation to have free trade access to North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pa -
cific. Canada is thus able to easily engage with this triad of regional groups.
The CPTPP creates a framework for trade that enables greater market access
between member states. Ever since the agreement was ratified, the elimina -
tion of tariffs abroad has stimulated Canadian foreign business activities. As a
result, Vietnam has become Canada’s largest trade partner in ASEAN and one
of Canada’s top 10 import countries alongside the US, China, Mexico, Germa-
ny, Japan, South Korea, Italy, UK, and Brazil (Table 1). In 2020, the trade value
between Vietnam and Canada reached almost US$9 billion. In the same year,
the trade balance between Canada and many of its ASEANS partners such as
Thailand, Vietnam, and Malaysia (except for Singapore) – all three also mem -
bers of the CPTPP – showed a deficit on Canada’s side (Table 2).
TABLE 1: MAIN EXPORTER COUNTRIES TO CANADA (IN US$ THOUSANDS)
Country 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Jan - July 2020 Jan - July 2021 %
United States 3,740,203 3,915,062 4,159,089 5,266,238 6,084,601 109.792.559 134.741.194 22,7
China 2,377,630 2,543,369 2,749,382 2,820,403 2,635,067 29.366.280 36.486.323 24,2
Mexico 1,956,616 2,146,102 2,301,598 2,145,732 2,274,700 11.853.047 15.034.205 26,8
Germany 1,222,975 1,332,843 1,358,459 1,368,114 1,203,500 7.196.565 8.805.794 22,3
Japan 897,010 996,390 1,138,210 1,284,968 1,126,372 5.406.240 7.519.996 39,0
Korea, South 1,023,241 1,072,328 1,118,999 1,208,123 885,755 3.880.615 4.721.111 21,6
Italy (incl. Vatican
City State) 746,375 774,727 981,494 924,849 878,984 3.613.385 4.747.638 31,3
Vietnam 62,135 93,595 101,273 137,834 130,381 2.933.454 4.261.237 45,2
United Kingdom 19,337 24,191 50,397 35,854 22,561 3.421.754 3.790.660 10,7
Brazil 1,571 4,167 5,807 296 1,379 2.653.197 3.207.773 20,9
Sub-total 12,047,092 12,902,774 13,964,707 15,192,411 15,243,299 180.117.101 223.315.936 24,0
Others 390,451,029 419,915,911 445,939,858 438,237,455 388,999,175 41.407.079 52.548.700 27,0
Total All Countries 402,498,121 432,818,685 459,904,565 453,429,866 404,242,474 221.524.181 275.864.636 24.5
Source: Canada 2021

48
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
TABLE 2: ASEAN–CANADA TRADE BALANCE (IN US$ THOUSANDS)
Approximately 70 percent of Canada’s worldwide imports comes from the US
and Mexico. Canada’s other import partners include, from Europe, Germany,
Italy, and the UK, and from the Asia-Pacific, China, Japan, and South Korea.
Canada’s major import partners in Southeast Asia are Vietnam, Thailand, and
Malaysia (Table 3); the CPTPP agreement helps facilitate economic partner -
ships between Canada and these countries as compared to Indonesia, which
is outside the agreement.
Given these facts, it is important for Canada to consider Indonesia as a po -
tential market – especially given its large population of 270 million and its
position as one of Asia’s emerging markets. Indeed, in the long run, it would
be very beneficial for both countries to have a bilateral trade agreement with
each other. 1 The start of Indonesia-Canada Comprehensive Economic Part -
nership Agreement (ICA-CEPA) negotiations is expected to give Indonesian
and Canadian business leaders the confidence to forge mutually beneficial
business deals.
Which countries will be Canada’s main export partners? According to Statis -
tics Canada, among the top 10 exporters to Canada are the United States, Chi-
na, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea. This fact underscores the relationship
Canada has with its trade partners.
Apart from China, most of these countries already have a trade agreement
with Canada. In the investment sector specifically, most of Canada’s interna -
tional investments are in North America, with the remainder spread across
Country 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Jan - July 2020 Jan - July 2021 %
United States 3,740,203 3,915,062 4,159,089 5,266,238 6,084,601 109.792.559 134.741.194 22,7
Indonesia -122,271 -1,496 298,740 85,120 128,825 94,934 233,972 146.5%
Singapore 217,304 230,388 -54,081 223,775 42,401 52,404 53,816 2.7%
Brunei Darussalam 7,511 -1,704 -811 6,316 5,508 2,220 2,186 -1.5%
Laos -10,683 -19,468 -47,754 -33,711 -20,654 -13,457 -13,527 -0.5%
Myanmar -32,812 -63,017 -74,508 -98,593 -91,005 -53,819 -44,109 18.0%
Philippines -550,482 -423,545 -362,570 -659,676 -219,521 -39,053 -80,929 -107.2%
Cambodia -865,856 -956,742 -1,077,683 -1,229,769 -1,103,695 -569,544 -727,952 -27.8%
Malaysia -1,420,957 -1,592,714 -1,696,413 -1,540,653 -1,606,983 -726,613 -1,312,788 -80.7%
Thailand -1,697,278 -1,980,732 -2,146,656 -2,155,707 -2,039,889 -1,101,345 -1,402,028 -27.3%
Vietnam -3,341,641 -3,104,694 -3,325,116 -4,517,350 -5,540,833 -2,604,975 -3,941,836 -51.3%
Sub-total -7,817,165 -7,913,724 -8,486,853 -9,920,248 -10,445,845 -4,959,248 -7,233,196 -45.9%
Others -4,621,753 -4,363,652 -459,089 3,108,093 -4,472,704 -2,777,654 13,670,198 592.1%
Total All Countries -12,438,918 -12,277,375 -8,945,942 -6,812,155 -14,918,549 -7,736,903 6,437,002 183.2%
Source: Canada 2021

49
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Europe and Latin America, and with just a small number in Asia. Indonesia’s
Ministry of Investment notes that around 90 percent of Canada’s investment
in the country is concentrated in the mining sector. Indonesia should find
ways to develop investment relations with Canada to benefit both countries,
including by exploring potential investment in other sectors.
TABLE 3: MAIN ASEAN EXPORTER COUNTRIES TO CANADA (IN US$
THOUSANDS)
Future Canadian engagement in Southeast Asia
Canada is a strong believer in fair trade and plays an active role in maritime
trade. With this in mind, what would be the best way for Canada to engage
with ASEAN? Indonesia and Canada share common interests in health care
technology, renewable energy, infrastructure, connectivity logistics or trans -
portation, and the digital economy.
It is also important for Indonesia to consider promoting investment oppor -
tunities to a Canadian audience. Most Canadian investors are not aware that
Indonesia has abundant natural resources and many investment projects. The
Indonesian government should have clear and simple procedures and regula -
tions for foreign investors to follow. Doing so would attract more foreign in -
vestment to Indonesia. In addition, it is also important for Indonesia to know
what factors will attract Canadian investors. For example, Canadian investors
are interested in investment projects with a fast payback and a Return on In -
vestment (ROI) calculation above 25 percent in a 20-year period.
No. Countries 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 January - July
2020
January - July
2021 %
1 Vietnam 3,740,203 3,915,062 4,159,089 5,266,238 6,089,343 2,933,454 4,261,237 45.26
2 Thailand 2,377,630 2,543,369 2,749,382 2,820,403 2,634,791 1,442,819 1,822,971 26.35
3 Malaysia 1,956,616 2,146,102 2,301,598 2,145,732 2,274,616 1,153,893 1,743,356 51.08
4 Indonesia 1,222,975 1,332,843 1,358,459 1,368,114 1,203,542 683,761 846,176 23.75
5 Cambodia 897,010 996,390 1,138,210 1,284,968 1,127,122 582,234 748,754 28.6
6 Philippines 1,023,241 1,072,328 1,118,999 1,208,123 885,864 452,357 604,181 33.56
7 Singapore 746,375 774,727 981,494 924,849 878,984 573,014 471,243 -17.76
8 Myanmar 62,135 93,595 101,273 137,834 130,632 68,985 58,589 -15.07
9 Laos 19,337 24,191 50,397 35,854 22,559 14,181 16,748 18.1
10 Brunei Darussalam 1,571 4,167 5,807 296 1,379 1,112 356 -67.91
Sub-total 12,047,092 12,902,774 13,964,707 15,192,411 15,248,832 7,905,814 10,573,617 33.74
Others 390,451,029 419,915,911 445,939,858 438,237,455 389,218,761 213,618,366 265,291,018 24.19
Total All Countries 402,498,121 432,818,685 459,904,565 453,429,866 404,467,593 221,524,181 275,864,636 24.53
Source: Canada 2021

50
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
Canada also has strength in health care technology and renewable energy,
in line with Indonesia’s national investment priorities. Therefore, Indonesia
should consider investing in health care technologies such as medical iso -
topes for hospitals given that Canadian companies that manufacture medical
isotopes are the main players in the world for this product. Indonesia could
also consider developing green technology for renewable energy from Can -
ada.
Despite the various trade agreements, Canada and its partners in Asia con -
tinue to face hundreds of trade or non-tariff barriers. If we could eliminate
these barriers, cooperation in the future could move quickly in the short- and
medium-term. Canada’s Ambassador to Indonesia, Cameron MacKay (2021),
has already agreed to possible free trade agreements with both Indonesia
and ASEAN. Canada should consider the sizeable market offered by the entire
ASEAN region, not only for trade but also for investment.
Such agreements focus not only on engagement among diplomats or govern -
ment officials; they also promote multi-track diplomacy. They are not limited
to naval, defence, or army-related engagement; they are also a means to pro -
vide trade investment and economic cooperation. Ultimately, it is important
for both regions to engage business players and communities since they will
be the backbone of future cooperation.
If negotiations for an ASEAN-Canada Free Trade Agreement prove difficult
given the need for consensus among ASEAN members, Indonesia and Canada
could negotiate a bilateral agreement.
Indonesia is considered the heart of ASEAN and plays a key role in shaping
the regional economy. Likewise, Indonesia and Canada are fellow members of
the G20 and a comprehensive economic partnership between the two coun -
tries will facilitate the strategic cooperation between the two economic pow -
ers. It seems that Canada has found it difficult to avoid the influence of both
China and the United States. As such, Canada’s engagement in the ASEAN
region, and specifically with Indonesia, could prove beneficial.
Economic and trade engagement are not only about connecting two business
partners. Canada has a strong expertise in logistics and transportation, which
are important for building the maritime connectivity needed for business and
Indonesia is considered the heart of
ASEAN and plays a key role in shaping
the regional economy.

51
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
investment. Canada is also well advanced in energy-related infrastructure,
which the ASEAN region, including Indonesia, needs. These areas of poten -
tial cooperation are crucial for developing the economy and for the sake of
the common future.
Many factors could attract Canada to forge a trade alliance with the ASEAN
region. By doing so, Canada could diversify its partners – not only partners in
the US and Mexico, but partners in the wider Asia-Pacific region.
The ongoing FTA negotiation between ASEAN and Canada, or even the bilat -
eral FTA between Indonesia and Canada, will be a historical breakthrough in
Canada’s engagement in the Indo-Pacific.
Leonard F. Hutabarat has been the Consul General of
the Republic of Indonesia in Toronto since 2018.

52
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
Canada. 2021. Report - Trade Data Online . [Customized search.] Govern -
ment of Canada. Available at https://www.ic.gc.ca/app/scr/tdst/tdo/crtr.html.
MacKay, Cameron. 2021. “ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific and Economic
Opportunities.” Statement during Focus Group of Discussion. Policy Plan -
ning and Development Agency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Indo -
nesia, April 7.
Endnotes
1 Indonesia and Canada recently agreed to start negotiations on the Com -
prehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA). The agreement
to begin negotiations was formalized with the virtual signing of a joint
statement on June 20, 2021, between the Indonesian Minister of Trade,
Muhammad Lutfi, and the Canadian Minister of Small Business, Export
Promotion and International Trade, Mary Ng. The agreement became a
milestone in the bilateral relationship between Indonesia and Canada,
particularly by establishing closer and comprehensive economic cooper -
ation.

53
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Strengthening the
bilateral connectivity
of Indonesia and
Canada through the
ASEAN outlook on the
Indo-Pacific
Ben Perkasa Drajat
W
ith the region’s rapidly shifting geo-economic and geopolitical dynam-
ics, Southeast Asia has become a strategic hub for major powers and a
focus of their potential frictions. For this reason, leaders of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) officially endorsed and adopted the ASEAN
Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) at the 34th ASEAN Summit in Bangkok in
2019.
AOIP’s main objective is to create an environment that will foster peace and
stability in the region by addressing security challenges and promoting pros -
perity through closer economic cooperation. AOIP also reinforces ASEAN’s
ongoing efforts to advance cooperation – through existing mechanisms – with
other countries. As such, AOIP plays an important role in strengthening ASE -
AN relations with its key partners, including Canada. Indeed, it guides ASEAN
and Canada as they work to enhance cooperation in key priority areas such

54
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
as achieving sustainable development goals by 2030 (SDGs 2030), enhancing
economic cooperation, and contributing to greater regional integration.
Integration and interconnections among the countries of the Indian Ocean
and the Pacific Ocean will not happen unless all parties make an effort to
build a sound connectivity infrastructure, including physical, institutional,
and people-to-people linkages. This article focuses on how Indonesia and
Canada can use trade, within the framework of AOIP , to strengthen their con-
nectivity.
Bilateral economic relations between Indonesia and
Canada
In 2020, trade between Indonesia and Canada totaled US$2.4 billion. Indo -
nesian imports from Canada have continued to grow in the past five years. In
fact, Indonesia is Canada’s largest export market in Southeast Asia (Govern -
ment of Canada 2019).
TABLE 1: THE INDONESIA-CANADA TRADE BALANCE, 2016-2020
(US$ THOUSANDS)
To better enhance economic cooperation, Indonesia’s Policy Analysis and De -
velopment Agency developed a composite index to identify Indonesia’s 30
top markets and 30 potential markets. The index is built using the following
six indicators: the average value of imports from partner countries; the aver -
age value of exports to partner countries; the average market share/contri -
bution to non-oil and gas exports to partner countries; Indonesia’s average
market share in partner countries; the trends in imports from Indonesia’s
partner countries; and the trends in Indonesia’s exports to partner countries.
Based on this index, Canada is Indonesia’s 12th top market, and its second in
the Americas. However, the trade figures between the two countries does not
reflect the real potential.
Using various measuring instruments, we are able to gain a better sense of
market complementarity and can better identify products that Indonesia
Description 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Trend,
2016 – 2020 (%)
Total Trade 2,115,477 2,374,859 2,754,638 2,696,923 2,404,510 3.91
Export 732,447 821,233 913,889 858,206 789,050 1.95
Import 1,383,029 1,553,625 1,840,749.5 1,838,717 1,615,460 4.91
Trade Balance 650,582 -732,392 -926,860 -980,511 -826,410 -8.01
Source: Ministry of Trade, Republic of Indonesia 2020.

55
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
could potentially and more competitively export to Canada. These include
items like telephones for cellular networks, data processing machines, and
communications apparatus, all of which could potentially strengthen the bi -
lateral connectivity between the two countries.
While most of the industries that have export potential are still dominated
by natural resources products, several strategic industries, including those
producing electrical machines, vehicles, and optical apparatus, are on the
rise; focusing on those areas could enhance connectivity between the two
countries in the long-term.
Encouraging SMEs to cooperate in the pursuit of
economic growth
ASEAN believes that everyone should cooperate in the quest for economic
growth and that no one should be left behind. That’s why ASEAN places a
heavy emphasis on the principle of inclusivity in the AOIP , which means that
all stakeholders must be involved, including small and medium-sized enter -
prises (SMEs) as the key drivers of inclusive growth.
SMEs represent 99.9 percent of all businesses in Indonesia and 99.8 percent
of businesses in Canada. They contribute to 61.1 percent of GDP in Indonesia
and 55.3 percent of GDP in Canada. Further, SMEs account for 97 percent of
employment in Indonesia and 68.8 percent of total employment in Canada.
In an increasingly integrated global economy, the extent to which SMEs are
participating and benefitting from economic cooperation will determine the
strength of the relationship between Indonesia and Canada.
In this regard, showcasing and implementing each country’s best practices for
SME policy will send a strong policy signal that both countries are committed
to cooperate on trade and investment. Because SMEs are the majority busi -
ness stakeholders in both countries, successfully linking SMEs in Indonesia
with those in Canada would also ensure that the trade agenda is inclusive and
sustainable.
Despite their pivotal role, SMEs are more likely to be resource constrained
than larger firms when they seek to take advantage of the benefits from trade
and investment liberalization. Based on a 2018 survey by Canada’s Asia-Pacific
Foundation, SMEs in Indonesia face a wide range of issues. Most (70 percent)
cited lack of access to financing as their main barrier to growth. Micro and
small enterprises in particular rely heavily on family for financing; they pur -
sue formal financing only as a secondary option as the barriers to attaining
such financing are high.
Another significant barrier to growth in Indonesia is human capital (identified
by 32 percent of survey recipients). Indonesia ranks 65th out of 130 countries

56
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
assessed in the Global Human Capital Index. The ability to attract and retain
talent remains the biggest challenge for human capital development in the
country.
While these factors present challenges, they could serve as a good starting
point for cooperation with Canada. Canada could provide capacity-building
assistance for SMEs, which could be done through the following key avenues:
Joint Canada-OECD projects to assist ASEAN SMEs . Previously, the govern -
ment of Canada and the OECD initiated the “Canada-OECD Projects on ASE -
AN SMEs,” which was designed to help empower SMEs in ASEAN member
countries. Through the project, Canada sought to encourage ASEAN SMEs to
formulate policies and programs that would enable them to enter the global
supply chain.
Digital economy (e-commerce for SMEs) . The digital transformation has
opened up a range of opportunities for SMEs in both countries. It has con -
tinued to enable them to innovate with their products and services, improve
their market intelligence, ease their access to talent, more easily secure fi -
nancing, and enhance their competitiveness in local and global markets.
However, before SMEs can take advantage of the many digital opportunities
that abound, they must also have increasing mobile device penetration and
better infrastructure.
The industry is currently growing in an incredible speed. This year revenue
in the eCommerce market is projected to reach US$38.2 billion in Indone -
sia and US$32.4 billion in Canada. Revenue is expected to show an annual
growth rate of 10.2 percent in Indonesia and 5.6 percent in Canada. In Indo -
nesia, mobile user penetration will be 57.4 percent in 2021 and is expected
to hit 77.0 percent by 2025. Meanwhile, in Canada, user penetration will be
72.5 percent in 2021 and is expected to hit 77.6 percent by 2025. The aver -
age annual revenue per user is expected to be US$240.75 in Indonesia and
US$1,175.93 in Canada.
In addition, greater access to financing needs to be prioritized. This can be
done in the following ways:
The digital transformation has
opened up a range of opportunities
for SMEs in both countries.

57
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Improving access to micro loans/low-interest loans and grants, and pro -
moting a user-friendly online information portal . Such measures will help
address information barriers and allow greater sharing of market and busi -
ness-related information. Social media platforms, traditional media, crowd -
funding applications, peer-to-peer lending, among other means, could help
policy-makers raise awareness of funding opportunities.
Expanding cross-border SME financing . Lack of financing, particularly trade
and supply chain financing, is a key constraint to the internationalization of
SMEs. Therefore, facilitating the cross-border flows of financing and financial
instruments (e.g., credit, credit guarantees, and particularly trade and supply
chain finance) is especially important to encourage SMEs to go international.
Conclusion
The bilateral connections between Indonesia and Canada could be strength -
ened by further encouraging trade and investment between the two. SMEs
are indispensable to the economic growth of both countries and their in -
volvement should be promoted within the framework of AOIP in order to
ensure that both countries foster inclusive economic cooperation. As the
e-commerce sector in both countries continues to grow, it will become one of
the areas most appropriate for potential further development.
Ben Perkasa Drajat is Director and Head of the Centre
for Policy Analysis and Development of the American
and European Region at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Republic of Indonesia.

58
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
References
Government of Canada. 2019. “Canada-Indonesia Relations.” Government
of Canada, May. Available at https://www.canadainternational.gc.ca/indone -
sia-indonesie/bilateral_relations_bilaterales/canada-indonesia-indonesie.as -
px?lang=eng.

59
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Papua as the gateway
to trade and tourism
activities in the Pacific
Melyana R. Pugu
T
he Pacific region is in demand by many major countries as a destination
for economic activities, especially trade and investment, and serves as a
cross-border route between major countries such as China, the United States,
India, and Australia, among others. With its generally favourable geopolitical
and geoeconomic conditions, the Pacific is currently an area of significant
interest for many countries in the world, including Indonesia.
There is no denying that Indonesia has not paid enough attention to the
Pacific region, especially when it comes to seeing the small countries in the
South Pacific as attractive economic cooperation partners. Is it because these
countries are too small and will not provide economic benefits for Indonesia?
Indeed, some of these countries’ income per capita is about the same as the
regional income in Indonesia. However, Indonesia should not discount the
potential for good neighbourly relations with this region. Engagement will
certainly prove beneficial when connectivity or connectedness occurs, espe -
cially if accompanied by economic improvement and investment growth as
well as social and cultural activities across communities.
Similarly, Papua – one of the biggest provinces in Indonesia with a majority
Melanesian population – is located very close to the Pacific region, especially
the South Pacific countries of Australia and New Zealand, but so far the prov -
ince has not enjoyed the benefits of its proximity to the economic trade flows
and especially connectedness with the Pacific region. Geographically, Papua

60
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
is directly adjacent to Papua New Guinea, with land borders located in five
regencies in the province, namely Jayapura City, Keerom Regency, Bintang
Mountains Regency, Merauke Regency, and Boven Digul Regency. There are
also sea borders with Papua New Guinea in Jayapura City and in Merauke, as
well as with Palau state in Supiori Regency.
Given those facts, could Papua province become Indonesia’s gateway to trade
and investment activity with the broader Indo-Pacific region and what chal -
lenges can be expected? The following discussion will seek to answer these
important questions.
Theoretical framework
As Indonesia’s easternmost region and populated by its ethnic Melanesian
population, Papua province has become a source of strength for Indonesia
when building trade, investment, and tourism relationships with Pacific coun -
tries, including India, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States. For our
analysis, it is useful to turn to liberalism in the study of international relations,
which is firmly rooted in classical analysts such as John Locke, Hugo Grotius,
and Immanuel Kant. The basic assumptions of classical thinkers that inspired
many liberal theories include beliefs about the rational qualities of individu -
als/people; beliefs about possible progress in social life; and the belief that
human beings, despite their own interests, are also able to work together and
build a more peaceful and harmonious society. Liberal scholars further trans -
fer these basic assumptions into the context of the international community.
According to liberal theory, the success of the international order depends on
at least four main factors: (1) the role of international institutions; (2) inter -
national norms and rules for regulating the conduct of countries; (3) increase
in economic interdependence between countries; and (4) technological de -
velopments and the growth of global communications. Connections among
these four factors will lead to cooperation, trust between countries, and a
greater reliance on negotiations to resolve disputes between countries. While
not ignoring the importance of high politics, liberalism pays more attention
to low-politics issues such as economic, social, and environmental issues as
priorities on the international agenda.
Based on this theory of liberalism, Indonesian diplomacy can help facilitate
economic cooperation and the opening of connectivity with the Indo-Pacific
region. In that formulation, Papua can serve as a gateway for connectivity – by
facilitating sea and air transportation, trade with the broader region, and by
providing a significant source of economic and cultural cooperation.

61
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
Indonesia’s challenges and expectations for the Indo-
Pacific
Geopolitically, Indonesia is located in the Indo-Pacific between Asia and the
Pacific, bordered by the Indian and Pacific Oceans. This region is the world’s
most important trade route and also serves as a confluence of cultures and
civilizations. It is rich with abundant natural resources but has become a tar -
get of large countries who recognize its political and economic importance.
Papua has 28 regencies and one city, with a total population of 4.3 million
people in 2021. Geographically, Papua is the closest Indonesian province to
the Pacific region, not notably the South Pacific countries. So far, Indone -
sian cooperation with surrounding countries has largely focused on technical
cooperation. A good example is with Fiji, with which it cooperates on agri -
culture and training. Similarly, Indonesia also cooperates with Papua New
Guinea on agriculture and infrastructure assistance. Indonesia has not coop -
erated much with the wider region in other sectors.
Papua’s potential to become the gateway to Indonesia’s trade activities in
the eastern region can be seen in a number of ways. First, the province’s
geographic proximity to the Pacific region is vitally important. An open sea
border connecting Jayapura in Papua with Pacific countries will shorten the
shipping routes between Indonesia and Indo-Pacific countries, which will
lower costs of production and other trade costs. Papua is quite close to the
countries of the three large Pacific island groupings: Melanesia (Papua New
Guinea, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Fiji, Australia), Polynesia
(Samoa, Tonga, Cook Islands, Niue, Tuvalu, New Zealand, French Polynesia),
and Micronesia (Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Na-
uru, Palau). Major countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and India
are also nearby. Given this close proximity and the possibility of connectivity,
Papua has the potential to become a gateway of economic activity to the Pacif-
ic region within the Indo-Pacific corridor.
Second, given its ethnic Melanesian population, Papua has much in common
culturally with the surrounding countries in the South Pacific. That similarity
opens up the possibility of facilitating economic and cultural cooperation
between Indonesia and the Pacific while encouraging cooperation in other
fields. In so doing, it would help encourage investment growth, trade, and
development both in Papua and the wider Pacific region.
Third, it can be used as a transit point for ships from Indo-Pacific countries,
which will facilitate trade activities in the region. Those activities will provide
economic benefits for Indonesia and especially Papuans, such as the absorp -
tion of Papuan labour and the increase of tourism between Papua and Pacific
countries. For example, Indonesia could work with Fiji, which has become
the centre for global communication and transportation routes (shipping and

62
A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN CANADA,
INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC   |  OCTOBER 2021
air travel) in the South Pacific region. With access to Fiji market, companies
could take advantage of low import duties to export their products to other
island nations.
Fourth, focusing on increasing cooperation and connectivity with Papua
might reduce the political debate and tensions between Indonesia and other
countries in the Indo-Pacific. After all, development and connectivity could
reduce their suspicions about human rights, poverty, and other issues in Pap -
ua.
There are still a number of challenges that may need to be overcome: the
readiness to make Papua the eastern gateway of trade and investment; the
skilled labour required in Papua for it to become the centre of economic and
trade activity; and security factors that often challenge economic and invest -
ment activities in the region. The Indonesian government and the local gov -
ernment of Papua province need to address these challenges to ensure that
Papua can emerge as a trading gateway to the Pacific region.
Conclusion
Indonesia has an opportunity to make Papua province the eastern gateway
to economic and cultural trade connectivity. This would provide economic,
political, and cultural benefits for Indonesia, for Papua, and for Indo-Pacific
countries as a whole. In addition to providing economic benefits for Indo -
nesian and Papuans themselves, it could minimize the issues of separatism,
human rights, and poverty in Papua in international forums.
Melyana R. Pugu is Senior Lecturer at Cenderawasih University in
Papua.

63
OCTOBER 2021  |  A NEW OUTLOOK: STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
CANADA, INDONESIA AND ASEAN IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING ABOUT MLI
I want to congratulate the
Macdonald-Laurier Institute
for 10 years of excellent
service to Canada. The
Institute's commitment to
public policy innovation has
put them on the cutting edge
of many of the country's most
pressing policy debates. The
Institute works in a persistent
and constructive way to
present new and insightful
ideas about how to best
achieve Canada's potential and
to produce a better and more
just country. Canada is better
for the forward-thinking,
research-based perspectives
that the Macdonald-Laurier
Institute brings to our most
critical issues.
The Macdonald-Laurier
Institute has been active in
the ﬁeld of Indigenous public
policy, building a ﬁne
tradition of working with
Indigenous organizations,
promoting Indigenous
thinkers and encouraging
innovative, Indigenous-led
solutions to the challenges
of 21 st  century Canada.
I congratulate MLI  on its 10
productive and constructive
years and look forward to
continuing to learn more
about the Institute's ﬁne
work in the ﬁeld.
May I congratulate MLI
for a decade of exemplary
leadership on national
and international issues.
Through high-quality
research and analysis,
MLI  has made a signiﬁcant
contribution to Canadian
public discourse and policy
development. With the
global resurgence
of authoritarianism and
illiberal populism, such
work is as timely as it is
important. I wish you
continued success in
the years to come.
The Macdonald-Laurier
Institute has produced
countless works of
scholarship that solve
today's problems with
the wisdom of our
political ancestors.
If we listen to the
Institute's advice,
we can fulﬁll Laurier's
dream of a country
where freedom is
its nationality.
The Honourable
Jody Wilson-Raybould
The Honourable
Irwin Cotler
The Honourable
Pierre Poilievre
The Right Honourable
Paul Martin
@MLInstitute
facebook.com/MacdonaldLaurierInstitute
youtube.com/MLInstitute
linkedin.com/company/macdonald-laurier-institute
613-482-8327  •  info@macdonaldlaurier.ca
323 Chapel Street, Suite 300,
Ottawa, Ontario  K1N 7Z2
MACDONALD-LAURIER INSTITUTE
Ideas change the world