seed_url: https://president.mn/en/2019/06/14/address-by-president-khaltmaagiin-battulga-at-the-tripartite-meeting-of-the-heads-of-state-of-mongolia-russia-and-china/
final_url: https://president.mn/en/2019/06/14/address-by-president-khaltmaagiin-battulga-at-the-tripartite-meeting-of-the-heads-of-state-of-mongolia-russia-and-china/
title: ADDRESS BY PRESIDENT KHALTMAAGIIN BATTULGA AT THE TRIPARTITE MEETING OF THE HEADS OF STATE OF MONGOLIA, RUSSIA, AND CHINA
date: 2019-06-14T10:46:18+00:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

2019/06/14 6:46:18
ADDRESS BY PRESIDENT KHALTMAAGIIN BATTULGA AT THE TRIPARTITE MEETING OF THE HEADS OF STATE OF MONGOLIA, RUSSIA, AND CHINA
“Your Excellencies, the
President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, and the
Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Mr. Xi Jinping,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
My greetings to you!
I am absolutely delighted to be
participating in and chairing the Fifth Tripartite Meeting of the Heads of
State of Mongolia, the Russian Federation, and the People’s Republic of China.
Developing friendly and good neighborly
relations as well as promoting mutually beneficial cooperation with Russia and
China are priority directions of Mongolia’s foreign policy. I am satisfied with
the vigorous development of our cooperation with Russia and China at the
strategic partnership level and within all social spheres.
In the margins of the 70th anniversary of
diplomatic relations between Mongolia and China, I paid a successful state
visit to China and attended the Second Belt and Road Forum for International
Cooperation in Beijing last April. The preparations for the visit of President
Vladimir Putin to Mongolia are underway, and I am confident that the visit will
be successful and the joint celebration of the 80th historic anniversary of the
Battles of Khalkhin Gol will be splendid.
The Mongolian people are pleased with the active development of
cooperation between Russia and China, our eternal neighbors. I would like to
congratulate President Xi Jinping on the recent successful state visit to
Russia.
The high-level and stable development of bilateral cooperation
between our three nations is creating a favorable environment for advancing
trilateral cooperation.
As a result of mutual efforts, the trilateral cooperation mechanism
has been set up, the legal foundation was solidified, spheres of cooperation
were expanded, and progress was observed in some sectors in recent years. Special
progress was made in the sphere of transit transport, and the fact that the
number of freight trains passing through Mongolia from China in the directions
of Russia and Europe increased by 500 percent between 2016 and 2018 is a
shining example of the benefits that can be gained from improved trilateral coordination.
However, I am sure Your Excellencies will agree that the
progress and developments in trilateral cooperation haven’t reached the level
that we desire. It is very unsatisfactory that there hasn’t been a launch of
any project that will leave positive impact on the livelihood of our people and
the economic developments of our three countries in the last three years since
the signing of the Mongolia-Russia-China Economic Corridor Program. Despite of
existing feasibility studies that are acceptable by each side, we find
ourselves in lack of a project.
Therefore, at the conclusion of this meeting, we have to give
instructions the corresponding institutions of the three countries with regard
to the responsibilities towards intensifying trilateral cooperation, including an
objective with a due date. In particular, I would like to have a practical
discussion with Your Excellencies on ways to accelerate the implementation of
the priority projects within the Economic Corridor Program.
Moreover, I propose the establishment of a joint working group
that is designated to study the feasibility of the project on construction of
natural gas pipes, which has been on the trilateral agenda for many years, and
to issue instructions based on their assessment.
I would also like to propose the establishment of a multilateral organization for the Northeast Asian Energy Super Grid Project.”