seed_url: https://president.mn/en/2024/09/03/speech-by-president-khurelsukh-on-the-outcome-of-mongolia-russia-official-talks/
final_url: https://president.mn/en/2024/09/03/speech-by-president-khurelsukh-on-the-outcome-of-mongolia-russia-official-talks/
title: SPEECH BY PRESIDENT KHURELSUKH ON THE OUTCOME OF MONGOLIA-RUSSIA OFFICIAL TALKS
date: 2024-09-03T14:59:32+00:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

2024/09/03 10:59:32
SPEECH BY PRESIDENT KHURELSUKH ON THE OUTCOME OF MONGOLIA-RUSSIA OFFICIAL TALKS
President of Mongolia Ukhnaa Khurelsukh and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin held a press briefing on the outcome of the official talks on September 3, 2024.
Full speech by President of Mongolia Ukhnaa Khurelsukh:
“Honorable President Vladimir Vladimirovich,
Distinguished guests and members of the media,
I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin for paying an official visit to our beautiful country in commemoration of the 85th anniversary of the Collective Victory in the Battle of Khalkhiin Gol, the 75th anniversary of the Mongolian-Russian Joint Venture “Ulaanbaatar Railway,” which is the symbol of friendship between Mongolia and Russia, and the historic centennial of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Mongolia and the Russian Federation.
We have a historical tradition to solemnly celebrate the historic victory in the Battle of Khalkhiin Gol to honor the bravery and sacrifices of the soldiers who fought for the independence and territorial integrity of the two countries, to ensure their heroic deeds are passed down to future generations, and to consolidate the deep bond of friendship between the peoples of Mongolia and Russia, which was forged in the shared pursuit of peace and development.
It is a pleasure to note that the traditionally friendly relations and cooperation between the peoples of the two eternal neighbors have further strengthened and consolidated over time, expanded with new content, and reached a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
The official visit of President of the Russian Federation Mr. Vladimir Vladimirovich to Mongolia is of high significance in advancing cooperation in fuel, energy, road transportation, environment, culture, education, health, and humanity, enriching the friendly relations and mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries with economic content.
During this visit, we exchanged views and discussed our positions on the issues facing the two countries, the region, and the international community.
As an outcome of our official talks, the Government of Mongolia and the Government of the Russian Federation signed the Agreement on the Development of the Blueprint for the Expansion and Renovation of the Third Thermal Power Station in Ulaanbaatar City of Mongolia” and the Agreement on Cooperation in the Supply of Oil and Petroleum Products.
Also, paying utmost attention to the long-discussed Eg Hydro Power Plant project, the two countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Conservation of Lake Baikal and Selenge River and the Protocol on Amending the Rules of the Mongolian-Russian Joint Venture “Ulaanbaatar Railway.”
I am glad that the construction of the Eg Hydro Power Plant will proceed thanks to the joint effort of the two parties.
The Russian Federation is one of Mongolia’s key trade partners, and although the trade turnover between the two countries has risen, there is a trade imbalance. So, as a result of taking measures to resolve this issue, we agreed to sign an Interim Trade Agreement between Mongolia and the Eurasian Economic Union.”
I believe that the Agreement will improve the legal framework of trade between the two countries, and create new tangible possibilities in expanding economic cooperation. I would like to commend the two sides for their efforts to establish the Interim  Trade Agreement this year. This will boost the development of our agricultural sector and small and medium-sized enterprises and open up new opportunities in trade, investment, and business foras.
Also, during our meeting and talks, we agreed to renew and accelerate the projects included in the Mongolia, Russia, and China Economic Corridor Program in accordance with today’s needs and requirements. This will maximize the unique potential and capabilities of our country’s transit transportation, as well as foster the intensification of trilateral cooperation under Russia’s Greater Eurasian Partnership Initiative, China’s Belt and Road Initiative, and Mongolia’s Steppe Road Plan. I would like to express my gratitude to the Russian side for taking the initiative to increase opportunities for students from our country to study at Russian universities under the scholarship program of the Government of Russia.
Mongolia is committed to further expanding and developing cooperation with our neighbor, the Russian Federation, under its peace-loving, independent, open, and multi-pillar foreign policy.
We respect the pluralism that arises from a country’s history, culture, civilization, national interests, and development path, and we strive to build international relations based on multi-pillar principles.
We firmly support strengthening further the United Nations’ major role and coordination in global affairs.
Therefore, our country maintains that any international challenges, difficulties, and misunderstandings should be resolved through mutual understanding, mutual trust, mutual respect, and dialogue within the confines of international legal norms.
Therefore, we are confident that our eternal neighbor, the Russian Federation, will become a leader in the great cause of world peace, security, sustainable development, and the welfare of humanity, making valuable contributions to strengthening trust, mutual respect, and cooperation among countries worldwide.
Honorable President, Your current visit to Mongolia is a significant step toward further consolidating the historic traditionally friendly relations and cooperation between Mongolia and Russia and expanding and developing mutually beneficial economic cooperation between the two countries.
Honorable President, Mr. Vladimir Vladimirovich, and distinguished guests,
Welcome to our beautiful country with an ancient history, the land of eternal blue skies. Thank you for your attention.”