seed_url: http://www.mcinet.gov.ma/en/content/sino-european-entrepreneurs-summit-sees-2015
final_url: https://www.mcinet.gov.ma/en/content/sino-european-entrepreneurs-summit-sees-2015
title: Sino-European Entrepreneurs Summit (SEES) 2015 | Ministère de l’Industrie et du Commerce
date: 2025-10-13T12:00:00Z
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Sino-European Entrepreneurs Summit (SEES) 2015
Chinese and European companies in search of competitiveness and growth were invited to take part in the momentum generated by the Industrial Acceleration Plan.
Speaking at the Sino-European Entrepreneurs Summit (SEES) 2015, held on 7 and 8 September in Paris, the Minister of Industry, Trade, Investment and Digital Economy, Mr. Moulay Hafid Elalamy stressed that the Plan has identified trades/professions whose development is open to partnership with China and Europe, noting that the Kingdom has the advantage of being a vector of growth in the African continent.
For China, Europe and their companies, Morocco offers the advantage of being a vector for growth in the African continent, especially as many of its competitive advantages speak in favour of developing partnerships responding to common imperatives, especially in terms of job and wealth creation, he explained, adding that these advantages confirm the position of the Kingdom as an attractive and competitive investment destination, and give it a positive momentum favourable to the increase of win-win partnerships.
Speaking at a plenary session on the theme “developing cooperation between China, Europe and Africa”, before an audience of business leaders from European and Chinese companies, the minister moreover stressed that the Africa is a continent whose transformative agenda for an inclusive and sustainable development provides enormous opportunities, he further stated it is highly desirable encourage the emergence of new economic conditions for joint wealth creation, particularly through the intensification of productive investment.
On the side-lines of the summit, Mr. Elalamy had several meetings with business leaders of major Chinese groups interested in investing in Morocco, and also met with the Executive Director and President of the Silk Road Fund, Mr Wang Yanzhi. This meeting was an opportunity to highlight Morocco's support of the “New Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road” and its desire to benefit from financial assistance from the fund whose overall budget amounts to 40 billion dollars.
Morocco hosts, on 26 and 27 November 2015 in Marrakesh, the 1st Sino-African Entrepreneurs Summit (SAES), organised under the patronage of HM King Mohammed VI, which will bring together over 400 decision-makers and heads of African and Chinese businesses.
SEES, which aims to be a platform for exchange, overlapping perspectives and joint explorations at the highest level, is particularly focused on the areas of energy and environmental protection, industry, financial services, real estate, consumer goods, farming/culture and innovation.
Share this article
read also
13 October 2025
Communiqué de presse
Nouaceur: HM the King Chairs Presentation Ceremony, Launch of Construction Work of Safran Group’s 'Aircraft Engines' Industrial Complex
Nouaceur - His Majesty King Mohammed VI, may God assist Him, accompanied by HRH Crown Prince M...
Foreign trade: Announcement issued at the ministerial meeting between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Kingdom of Morocco
As part of the strengthening of fraternal cooperation relations and the distinguished economic...
1 November 2024
Day 3 of the Marrakech Air Show: Human capital and innovation in the spotlight
The 7th edition of the Marrakech Air Show, held under the High Patronage of His Majesty King M...
Video
The industrial sector a driving force of Morocco’s economy! #MoroccoAM2023
Presentation to HM the King of Model of 1st Moroccan Consumer Car Brand and Prototype of Hydrogen Vehicle of Moroccan Initiative
Hexcel Marks Grand Opening of Newly Expanded Engineered Core Operations Plant in Morocco