seed_url: https://von.gov.ng/nigeria-to-strengthen-ties-with-china/
final_url: https://von.gov.ng/nigeria-to-strengthen-ties-with-china/
title: Nigeria to strengthen ties with China   - Voice of Nigeria Broadcasting Service
date: 2021-08-19T09:28:31+00:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Nigeria
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
WhatsApp
The Nigerian government and the People’s Republic of China have agreed to work together to create more opportunities for Nigerian Youths in skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development.
The Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria Mr. Cui Jianchun announced this at a seminar on Belt and Road initiative, symphony played by China – Nigeria Orchestra held in Abuja.
The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is a strategy initiated by the People’s Republic of China that seeks to connect Asia with Africa and Europe via land and maritime network for economic prosperity.
According to the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria Mr. Cui Jianchun
“the Belt and Road initiative focuses on promoting policy coordination, unimpeded trade, financial integration, facility connectivity, People-to-people bond through a consultative process and joint efforts with a goal of bringing benefits to the two countries.”
He said’
“so far, the Belt and Road Initiative has brought tremendous opportunities to Nigeria since the country joined initiative in 2018 at a summit in Beijing”.
Mr. Cui unveiled strategy by the Chinese government to promote future cooperation with Nigeria through the framework of Belt and Road Initiative BRI, to include Political Support, Economic Cooperation, Military Collaboration, International Coordination and People to People Bond.
He identified Infrastructure, ICT, industry, investment, import & export as other areas of interest between the two countries.
The Permanent Secretary Nigeria’s Ministry of Youths and sports development Mr. Nebeolisa Anako said
, “strengthening collaboration between Nigeria and China in areas of skills, ICT and entrepreneurship is essentially required.”
“The relationship between these two countries has expanded and blossomed from Agriculture, to information technology, construction, infrastructure, trade, cultural and youth exchange as well as sports development”.
Mr. Anako explained.
The Director General National Council for Arts and Culture Mr. Otumba Runsewe identified culture as an instrument of peace and development among countries.
Also the Director Federal scholarship board Mrs Ndajiwo Asta said, Nigerian Children would benefit from bilateral education agreement cooperation through the Belt and Road Initiative.
The seminar on Belt and Road initiative BRI, symphony played by China – Nigeria Orchestra was part of activities marking Nigeria China 50 years
Dominica Nwabufo