seed_url: https://www.icrc.gov.ng/assets/uploads/2017/10/Infrastructure-Financing-in-Malaysia.pdf
final_url: https://www.icrc.gov.ng/assets/uploads/2017/10/Infrastructure-Financing-in-Malaysia.pdf
title: Infrastructure-Financing-in-Malaysia.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

26  |  NOMURA JOURNAL OF ASIAN CAPITAL MARKETS  |  Spring 2017 Vol.1/No.2 Infrastructure Financing in Malaysia  |  27
MALAYSIA
HEE KONG YONG
ASEAN Advisory
Infrastructure Financing
in Malaysia
M
alaysia has one of the high -
est quality of infrastructure
amongst the ASEAN countries. In
a study by Goldman Sachs Global Econom-
ics,*1 Malaysia ranked one of the highest
in ‘quality score’ at 5.1 compared to South
Korea (5.9), Thailand (4.6), Indonesia (3.8)
and Philippines (3.2). In the latest report by
Asian Development Bank (ADB), Malaysia
has one of the highest road densities (km
per 1000sqkm of land area)*
2  in the region.
Income growth and urbanisation in the
country will continue to drive infrastruc
-
ture demand particularly in power, roads,
airports and water.
Malaysia’s high quality infrastruc
-
ture has mainly been due to the govern-
ment’s unwavering commitment to its
five-year economic plans (known as Ma
-
laysia Plans) to implement the many in -
frastructure projects. A key factor for the
successful implementation of the country’s
infrastructure projects is the adoption of
public-private partnership (PPP) in the
early 1980’s. PPP allowed the government
to launch more infrastructure projects by
The Tenth Malaysia Plan (10MP) was the
first 5-Year Plan following the adoption
of NEM. In terms of infrastructure devel
-
opment, the 10MP focused on upgrading
physical infrastructure to enhance access
and connectivity; developing a people-cen
-
tric public transport system; growing lo-
gistics and trade facilitation; continuing
efforts to restructure the water services
industry; and ensuring effective sourcing
and delivery of energy.
During the 10MP, the government
made large investments in transport, dig
-
ital and energy infrastructure in line with
rising demands for these assets. In the
5-year period, the road network grew by
68%, connecting more rural areas to na
-
tional economic growth.*4 In the same peri-
od, cargo and container volume increased
by 23%, supported by the two major ports
of Port of Tanjung Pelepas and Port Klang,
which were amongst the world’s Top 20
container ports. The number of air passen
-
gers grew by 46% in the period, supported
by a new runway and terminal (KLIA2).
Under the National Broadband Initiative,
sharing the burden of funding these proj
-
ects with the private sector. This, in turn,
has made the private sector an important
engine of national growth.
 Infrastructure development is
one of the main drivers in the National
Transformation Programme (NTP) of Ma
-
laysia. The government saw the need to
transform both the economy and how the
government was to deliver public services.
In 2010, the government unveiled the New
Economic Model (NEM) which aimed to
transform Malaysia into a high-income na
-
tion by 2020.
In 2010, the NTP was launched to im-
plement the NEM. The NTP comprises two
components: the Economic Transforma
-
tion Programme (ETP) which was to trans-
form the economy, and the Government
Transformation Programme (GTP) which
was to transform the ways the government
delivers its mandate to the people in terms
of public service deliveries. The initiatives
under the ETP collectively were aimed at
propelling Malaysia to a high-income na
-
tion with Gross National Income (GNI) of
up to USD 15,000 by attracting investments
exceeding USD 444 billion by 2020 and the
creation of 3.3 million new jobs. The thrust
of the ETP was to transform the economy
to a private sector-led economy. Of the USD
444 billion investment required, 92% was
targeted to come from the private sector
(while Government-Linked Companies
(GLCs) are expected to contribute 60% of
the total investment).*
3
Infrastructure
Development and
National Transformation
Programme in Malaysia
Infrastructure
Achievements under
the Tenth Malaysia Plan
(2011-2015)

Infrastructure Financing in Malaysia  |  27
almost 56,000 km of fibre was rolled out,
increasing the penetration to more than
70% of Malaysia’s households. Under this
5-year Plan, the Pengerang Integrated Pe
-
troleum Complex (PIPC) was started in
2012, on 9,100 hectares of land, helping to
improve energy security for Malaysia.
The Eleventh Malaysia Plan (11MP) will
build on the achievements of the 10MP.
The five focus areas are:
A.  Building an integrated need-based
　 transport system
B.  Unleashing growth of logistics and
　　　enhancing trade facilitation
C.  Improving coverage, quality, and
　  affordability of digital infrastructure
D.  Continuing the transition to a new
　 　water services industry framework
E.  Encouraging sustainable energy use
　　　to support growth
11MP listed many infrastructure projects
under each of the focus areas. The govern
-
ment intends to achieve balanced econom-
ic development for the whole country and
has stated its intention to focus highway
developments outside the Klang Valley.
The 11MP will thus focus on rural and
rural-urban connectivity. Several projects
were mentioned in the 11MP: The Pan Bor
-
Table 1: The Tenth Malaysia Plan (2011-2015) Resulted in the Following Enviable Achievements*5
Source: The Tenth Malaysia Plan (2011-2015)
Infrastructure Achievements
New roads added in the 5 years 93,100 km
National Road Development Global Index From 1.42 in 2010 to 2.29 in 2014
Increase in air passengers handled 39%
Increase in urban rail ridership in the 5 years 32%
World Bank Logistics Index ranking 29 in 2013 to 25 in 2014
Household broadband penetration 70% in 2014
Population served with clean and treated water 95% by 2013
Sewerage coverage in population 41 million
Generation capacity added 5,458 MW
Electricity coverage of population 98%
neo Highway, the Central Spine Road, Kota
Bharu-Kuala Krai Highway, and the Lebuh
Raya Pantai Timur. The completion of the
West Coast Expressway in 2019 will also
provide better access to the West Coast of
Perak and Selangor.
The government has placed empha
-
sis on increasing the usage of public trans-
port in urban areas. To this end, continu-
al emphasis is placed on completing the
Klang Valley Mass Rapid Transit (KVMRT)
system. The KVMRT system will become
operational during the 11MP. The KVMRT
Line 1 traverses 51 km between Sungai Bu
-
loh and Kajang, through 31 stations serv-
ing about 1.2 million people with a daily
expected ridership of 400,000. Construc
-
tion on KVMRT Line 2 started in 2016 and
is expected to become operational by 2022.
Additionally, construction on a Light Rail
Transit (LRT) Line 3 connecting Bandar
Utama to Klang, running over 36 km and
serving 25 stations will start in 2017 with
expected completion in 2020.
Several of these projects in the 11MP
have already commenced construction.
Infrastructure job awards in the first half
of 2016 (1H16) came to MYR 30 billion, per
statistics by the Construction Industry De
-
velopment Board. This has exceeded the
MYR 26 billion awarded for the whole of
2015. The MYR 30 billion should include
MYR 23 billion worth of Klang Valley Mass
Rapid Transit 2 (KVMRT 2) jobs. It is esti
-
mated that the total infrastructure award
value for 2016 exceeded MYR 40 billion
including the Sungai Besi-Ulu Kelang
Elevated Expressway (SUKE) and Dam
-
ansara-Shah Alam Elevated Expressway
(DASH). There are still the remaining pack
-
ages of the KVMRT 2 (estimate over MYR
5 billion), Pan Borneo Sarawak Highway
(MYR 11 billion) and West Coast Express
-
way (MYR 2 billion), besides the KVLRT 3
(MYR 9 billion), to be awarded in 2017.
Beyond 2017, the Kuala Lumpur to
Singapore High Speed Rail (HSR), estimat
-
ed at more than MYR 50 billion, will be
the single largest infrastructure project.
A study on the KVMRT 3 (Circle Line) has
also started positively. Other rail related
commitments are the Gemas-Johor Baru
double track rail (MYR 7 billion) and East
Coast Rail (estimated at MYR 55 billion), the
latter will help support the development of
Kuantan Port.
In addition to these are many proj
-
ects that have been announced as part of
Chinese investments into Malaysia. Many
of these projects are claimed to be part
of China’s ‘Maritime Silk Road Initiative’
(MSRI) even though they may not be. Some
of these projects are described further be
-
low.
Infrastructure
Development under the
Eleventh Malaysia Plan
(2016-2020)
Prior to the adoption of the Malaysia Pri-
vatisation Masterplan (MPM) in 1983, most
infrastructure development was financed
through the Government Development
Budget (DE) as capital items of public goods.
With the introduction of PPP in Malaysia
through the MPM, the funding of many
infrastructure projects was shifted to the
Financing
Infrastructure
Development in
Malaysia

28  |  NOMURA JOURNAL OF ASIAN CAPITAL MARKETS  |  Spring 2017 Vol.1/No.2 Infrastructure Financing in Malaysia  |  29
private sector. This has helped to alleviate
the financial burden on the government.
Another recent development in Malaysia
is investment in infrastructure projects by
Chinese companies under the MSRI. Some
of these projects will be financed through
soft loans by Chinese government agencies
and contractor-financing.
petitive, efficient and sustainable financing
models, and to maintain the government’s
fiscal position through most competitive fi
-
nancing and timely disbursement of fund.
To date, MYR 46 billion has been raised for
the MRT projects.*
6  DanaInfra will also be
raising funds for the first phase of the Pan
Borneo Highway project (MYR 13 billion).
The debt will be repaid through annual
allocation by the government. Most of the
debt raised by NFPCs is guaranteed by the
government even though it is not reflected
in the official public sector debt.
Despite the various measures to re
-
duce budget deficits whilst transforming
the economy, Malaysia has found the op-
tions to raise more debt to fund develop-
ment projects to be decreasing. The debt
service ratio has been increasing annually,
rising to 12% in 2016. This has constricted
the wiggle room for the government to be
able to raise more debt for both operating
and development expenditure.
At the same time, the public debt-to-
GDP ratio has almost breached the 55%
mark. This ratio is lower than in most de
-
veloped countries and breaching it would
not normally have any immediate signif
-
icant impact on the economy. However,
to change the ratio limit would require
the support of opposition lawmakers in
parliament and this is unlikely to happen
at present. The government has trans
-
ferred some public-sector debt to special
purpose vehicles and NFPCs and hence
taken it partially ‘off balance sheet’. The
public-sector funding options available to
the government have been limited by this
55% ratio.
The NTP has also resulted in the de
-
crease in budget deficits over the years.
The government has worked hard to rein
in public spending to reduce budget defi
-
cits, from 6.7% in 2009 to 3.2% in 2016.
However, this has constrained the gov -
ernment’s ability to allocate more funds
for development expenditure. Some of the
recent large infrastructure projects have
been funded through Non-Financial Public
Corporations (NFPCs) which raised debt
financing for these projects through the lo
-
cal capital market. An example is DanaIn-
fra which was established pursuant to the
Malaysian Economic Council’s decision on
14 June 2010 after in-depth consideration
for the need to have an Infrastructure Fi
-
nancing Entity (IFE) to advise and under-
take funding for the proposed Mass Rapid
Transit Project (MRT Project). The main ob
-
jectives of the IFE are to set up a separate
fund-raising activity from infrastructure
construction, to develop the most cost com
-
Public sector debt and budget deficit
constraints
5
0
10
15
20
25
30 14
%
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2007
MYR Billion
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Debt service charges
Debt service charges as percentage of
 government revenue
Debt service charges Debt service charges as % of government revenue
Figure 1: Increase in Debt Service Charges
Source: Ministry of Finance
Malaysia launched the MPM in 1983
which introduced private sector invest -
ments in public infrastructure. It was com-
monly known as Privatisation until 2009
when a dedicated agency, Unit Kerjasama
Awam Swasta (UKAS, formerly also known
as 3PU), was set up. UKAS is responsible
for monitoring and implementing PPP
projects and acts as secretariat for the gov
-
ernment’s projects in the five dedicated
economic corridors. It also oversees the
Facilitation Fund from the national budget
which is used to help bridge the viability
gaps of PPP projects. Since 1983, many in
-
frastructure projects have also been car-
ried out using the PPP mechanism where
some of the project risks are transferred
to the private sector. Because of PPP, many
of the multi-lane highways in Malaysia
are tolled, and today, Independent Private
Producers (IPPs) constitute more that 50%
of the total power generating capacity of
the country. Most of the major ports are
privately owned. The major international
airports, KLIA1 and KLIA2, are also pri
-
vately owned, albeit by a GLC. Some of the
Financing Infrastructure Development
through PPP
MALAYSIA

Infrastructure Financing in Malaysia  |  29
past failed PPP projects have cost the gov-
ernment when they had to be bailed out
or nationalised. These included the Kuala
Lumpur public transport system. Moving
forward, there are not many projects left
that can be carried out via the PPP mech
-
anism where the users pay for the services
or use of the facilities. The government
has also used the Private Finance Initiative
(PFI) mechanism, a funding model similar
to that used in the United Kingdom where
the government is contracted to pay pri
-
vate developers and investors for services
provided over a long period. Some hos
-
pitals and universities have used the PFI
mechanism. The PFI mechanism is gener-
ally not suited for developing countries*7
as it will result in the government carrying
a contingent liability on its books. This is
in line with the International Public Sector
Accounting Standards 32 (IPSAS32). The
UK Parliamentary Select Committee on
PFI published a scathing report on the UK
PFI Programme in 2011, in which it ques
-
tioned the rationale of using PFI for many
public-sector services.*
8 Malaysia has since
scaled back the use of the PFI mechanism
and other similar mechanisms to deliver
public services to avoid these contingent
liabilities.
PPP projects in Malaysia are typically
funded using non-recourse project-financ
-
ing methods. These projects have, in the
past, helped Malaysia to establish itself as
a world leading issuer of sukuk or Islamic
bonds.
between the two countries. Recent Chinese
investments into Malaysia include:
• The setting up of the Malaysian cam-
 pus of Xiamen University
• The MYR 7 billion Gemas-Johor Baru
electrified double tracking rail proj
-
ect
• The Malaysia-China Kuantan Indus-
trial park, owned jointly by Chi -
nese investors and Malaysian com-
panies, and which saw investments
of more than MYR 6 billion to build a
steel mill, upgrading of the port and
other facilities
• The USD 10 billion deep sea port in
the Melaka Gateway Project
• The MYR 18 billion acquisition of
1MDB’s power assets
• The Bandar Malaysia property de
-
velopment and HSR terminal at Ban-
dar Malaysia
There are also several proposed
mega projects that have been attributed to
MSRI. Though some projects do not seem to
relate to maritime projects, they have been
promoted as part of MSRI, for example the
Bandar Malaysia project. Each of them will
have a significant impact on the Malay
-
sian economy and will help the country to
maintain or increase the NTP momentum.
However, like most of the signed MSRI-re
-
lated projects, each of them will have polit-
ical-economic impact on Malaysia.
In the 2017 Budget, the Malaysian
Prime Minister announced the intention of
the government to build the ECRL.*
9 This
mega project would help Malaysia main-
tain its NTP momentum. The proposed 600
km, MYR 55 billion project will cut through
four states, linking Klang Valley, Pahang,
Terengganu and Kelantan. It will also
link Kuantan Port and the Malaysia-China
Kuantan Industrial Park to the West Coast.
Both projects are deemed to be part of
MSRI, and hence the ECRL project is also,
by association, deemed to be part of MSRI.
ECRL will connect many rural townships
such as Port Klang, ITT Gombak, Bentong,
Mentakab, Kuantan, Kemaman, Kerteh,
Kuala Terengganu, Kota Bharu and Tump
-
at, and is part of the larger plan to connect
rural areas. The government has said that
the railway link will lower transportation
costs between the West and East coasts of
Peninsular Malaysia, bring down prices
of goods, and reduce travelling time. The
project, which is part of the East Coast Eco
-
nomic Region will be developed in several
phases over a five-year period. The govern
-
The MYR 55 billion East Coast Rail Line
(ECRL) Project
Though Chinese investments in
Malaysia have gained more prominence
over the last two years with many of the
proposed projects being declared part of
the MSRI, the Chinese invested in Malay
-
sia even before the One Belt, One Road
Initiative was announced by Xi Jinping in
2013. Most of these projects are either For
-
eign Direct Investments (FDIs) or PPP with
no obligations from, or liabilities to, the
government. Some of these projects are
deemed to be publicly-funded projects, fi
-
nanced through soft loans to Malaysia, for
example, the East Coast Rail project (ECRL).
One of the earliest high profile in
-
vestments was the property play in Iskan-
dar Malaysia where Chinese developers
partnered with local developers to launch
massive property developments. These
include Country Garden, R&F Properties
and Greenland Group which bought large
strategic land banks. Chinese funding and
investments into Malaysia are likely to con
-
tinue especially given the deepening of ties
Financing Infrastructure Development
the Chinese Way
ment sees this project as crucial to Malay-
sia and have said that this project should
not be delayed as it would not only spur the
country’s transportation industry develop
-
ment, but also help to speed up growth of
small towns along the way. The project
would also assist in the transfer of technol-
ogy in the railway industry, he said.
Malaysia is currently in negotiation
with China to sign the Framework Financ-
ing Agreement and Engineering, Procure-
ment, Construction (EPC) Contract for the
ECRL project.*10 The Prime Minister paid a
6-day visit to China last year during which
sixteen bilateral MOUs were signed. This
was the third visit by the Malaysian Prime
Minster to China and underscored the eco
-
nomic and financing importance of China
to Malaysia. It was reported that China was
set to build and finance the ECRL project
with the signing of the Framework Financ
-
ing Agreement and EPC Contract for the
project. China is expected to provide soft
loans with very favourable terms, a 20-
year repayment period with 7-year no-re
-
payment period. The project is expected
to be fast-tracked and is expected to com
-
mence construction in 2017.
On 15 December, 2016, Malaysia and
Singapore signed a bilateral agreement to
jointly develop the 350km HSR. This proj
-
ect will reduce the travelling time between
the two cities by two hours, to approxi
-
mately 90 minutes. The HSR serves as an
alternative mode of public transport travel
between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. It
is seen to be in line with the transforma
-
tion of Malaysia by linking the two capital
cities to meet growing demand, catalysing
economic growth and enhancing long term
economic competitiveness while improv
-
ing the quality of life of its people. It will
also help to open and rejuvenate smaller
cities in Peninsular Malaysia.
The project is expected to cost
more than MYR 50 billion.*
11 The mode
of financing is still uncertain. There are
already many companies which have ex
-
pressed an interest in bidding for some of
the works on this project. Like the ECRL
project, Chinese companies and agencies
may offer soft loans as part of their bid
-
ding strategies.
Kuala Lumpur – Singapore High Speed
Rail (HSR)
The Bandar Malaysia project is a
property development project that sits on
500 acres of prime land just 10 minutes
from the capital city’s centre. This used
to be the Malaysian Air Force airfield. Its
Bandar Malaysia and HSR Terminal

30  |  NOMURA JOURNAL OF ASIAN CAPITAL MARKETS  |  Spring 2017 Vol.1/No.2 Philippines:Infrastructure Development is a Priority   |  31
link to MSRI is that it will also be the Kua-
la Lumpur Terminal for the proposed HSR
project that will link Kuala Lumpur to Sin-
gapore, connecting ports in Malaysia and
Singapore. This project has been attributed
to be part of MSRI. The government has
recently divested 60% of the shares of the
state-owned company that holds the devel
-
opment rights to the land to a consortium
comprising China Railway Engineering
Corp (CREC) and Iskandar Waterfront
Holdings, the master developer of Danga
Bay in the southern state of Johor (CREC
Consortium). CREC is a listed company on
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The com
-
pany has built a large proportion of the
HSR projects in China. To date, China has
more than 20,000 km of HSR tracks.
Bandar Malaysia’s expected gross
development value is MYR 160 billion. It
is a huge development and will feature the
world’s largest underground city, shopping
malls, indoor theme parks, a financial cen
-
tre as well as the MYR 8.3 billion regional
headquarters of CREC. When completed, it
will turn the Malaysian capital into a most
impressive railway terminal along the so-
called Iron Silk Route linking Beijing with
Singapore via Thailand.
The CREC Consortium is likely to
use this development to support its bid to
secure the construction work of the HSR
project. The funding for this project is not
clear at this stage, but it is likely that China
would offer an attractive financing pack
-
age as part of its bid.  China has already
won the bid for the Medium Speed Rail
(MSR) link between Jakarta and Bandung,
and is likely to provide loans for the Thai
-
land section linking China to the Malaysian
border.
There are already significant Chi
-
nese investments or joint ventures in Ma-
laysian ports. For example, Gaungxi Beibu
Gulf International Port Group has a 40%
stake in Kuantan Port Consortium and a
49% stake in Malaysia-China Kuantan In
-
dustrial Park. SM International Wholesale
(China) is operating the Port Klang Inter
-
national Trade and Halal Industry Centre,
and Guangdong province announced that
it will invest USD 10 billion in a deep-sea
port in the Malacca Gateway project. Dis
-
cussions are also ongoing with the Chinese
to build another port in Port Klang.
Malaysia and China have also signed
a Port Alliance agreement in 2016 which
laid down the foundation for cooperation
between ten Chinese ports (Dalian, Shang
-
hai, Ningbo, Qinzhou, Guangzhou, Fuzhou,
Xiamen, Shenzhen, Hainan and Taicang)
Chinese Investments in Malaysian Ports
and six Malaysian ports (Port Klang, Malac-
ca, Penang, Johor, Kuantan and Bintulu).
This alliance is part of the MSRI.
HEE KONG YONG
Senior Advisor, ASEAN Advisory
HK Yong is a Senior Adviser of ASEAN Advi-
sory, the consulting arm of Singapore-listed
Zico Holdings, Inc. He was a Senior Fellow
with the Institute of Strategic & Internation-
al Studies in Malaysia where he focused on
infrastructure development and financing,
and China’s Road & Belt Initiative. He is also
an Adviser to the Commonwealth Enter-
prise and Investment Council in London on
PPP matters, and an Adviser to Resource
and Advisory Centre Malaysia. HK was the
Adviser (Public Private Partnerships) of the
Commonwealth Secretariat, London, where
he provided advisory and capacity-building
support to governments of the 53 Common-
wealth member countries.
He edited the book
Public Private Partner-
ships Policy and Practice – a Reference
Guide. He is a member of the Asian Council
of the International Project Finance Associ-
ation. He sits on the Boards of listed and pri-
vate companies.
MALAYSIA
Infrastructure plays a pivotal role in the
National Transformation Programme of
Malaysia and the development of the coun
-
try. It has a tremendous impact on bene-
fitting the population and on bridging the
economic gap between the rural and ur-
ban population. The country will continue
to urbanize with the many new land and
air transport infrastructure projects. The
decision on infrastructure development,
including the types and the mode of fi
-
nancing, will have significant implications
on their sustainability. The government’s
ability to fund future projects has been
constrained by the current large pub
-
lic-sector debt and high debt-service ratio,
exacerbated by declining oil prices which
has reduced the contributions from the Na
-
tional Oil Company, Petronas. Malaysia has
used PPP to finance many of its infrastruc
-
ture projects since 1983 and will continue
to adopt new PPP funding models. The ma
-
jor constraint posed to new PPP projects is
the ability of users to pay for them. Chinese
investments in Malaysia’s infrastructure
projects, whether in the form of FDIs, PPP
or contractor-financing, will continue to be
an alternative to the government.
Maintaining the
Infrastructure
Development
Momentum
*1 Goldman Sachs Economics Research Issue
No:13/18, May 2013
*2 ADB, “Meeting Asia’s Infrastructure Needs,”
2017
*3 http://etp.pemandu.gov.my/About_ETP-@-
Overview_of_ETP.aspx
*4 Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister’s
Department, Eleventh Malaysia Plan (2016-
2020)
*5 Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister’s
Department, Tenth Malaysia Plan (2011-
2015)
*6 http://www.danainfra.com.my/index.php?
 option=com_content&view=article&id=1
 54&Itemid=303
*7 HK Yong, “Making PPPs work in developing
countries,” Commonwealth Trade and In-
vestment Report 2013
*8 http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/
cm201012/cmselect/cmtreasy/1146/114602.
htm
*9 http://www.nst.com.my/news/2016/10/18
  2241/2017-budget-ecrl-cost-rm55bil
*10 http://www.bernama.com/bernama/v8/
newsindex.php?id=1297622
*11 http://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/
 2017/01/24/mahathir-opposes-hsr-project-
 malaysiasingapore-contract-not-a-done-
 deal-if-opposition-comes-to-power/
Notes