seed_url: https://ncsp.gov.ng/whoweare/
final_url: https://ncsp.gov.ng/whoweare/
title: Who We Are – NCSP
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

About US
ABOUT NCSP
The Nigeria-China Strategic Partnership (NCSP) was initiated to strengthen diplomatic and economic ties between Nigeria and China, ensuring the efficient execution of joint initiatives and investments that benefit both nations.
Established under the leadership of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu following agreements reached with President Xi Jinping at FOCAC 2024, NCSP serves as a bridge between both nations, facilitating high-impact partnerships that align with Nigeria’s development priorities and the Renewed Hope Agenda along with China’s Belt and Road Initiative.
By prioritizing industrialization, economic diversification, and sustainable trade practices, NCSP is set to redefine Nigeria-China relations from transactional and project contract engagements to long-term development-driven collaborations.
Through its mandate, NCSP promotes technology transfer, infrastructure development, and sectoral growth in the following sectors:
Infrastructure Development
Construction and modernisation of roads, railways, bridges, and airports.
Power sector investments, including renewable energy projects.
Smart city projects and urban development plans.
Science & Technology
Collaboration on artificial intelligence, digital transformation, and research innovation.
Knowledge sharing and capacity building in technology-driven industries.
Strengthening Nigeria’s digital economy through smart investments.
Agriculture
Development of cassava, rice, and other agro-processing initiatives.
Technology-driven irrigation and mechanization for enhanced food security.
Livestock development
Access to funding and markets for Nigerian farmers.
Health
Construction and upgrading of hospitals and research centres.
Partnerships for local pharmaceutical production.
Exchange programs for Nigerian and Chinese medical professionals.
Manufacturing & Industrialization
Boosting local production of automobiles, renewable energy products, textiles, and consumer goods, amongst others.
Encouraging joint ventures and foreign direct investment (FDI) in Nigeria’s manufacturing sector.
Mining & Natural Resources
Mechanized extraction and processing of solid minerals.
Facilitating China-backed investments in mining technology and exploration.
AREAS OF FOCUS
NCSP focuses on several strategic sectors that are essential for Nigeria’s growth and long-term economic sustainability:
Infrastructure
Expanding transportation networks, power grids, and urban development projects leveraging Chinese technical expertise and financing.
Science and Technology
Advancing Nigeria’s digital economy through artificial intelligence, smart infrastructure, and industrial automation.
Agriculture
Strengthening agro-processing, mechanization, and supply chain integration to boost Nigeria’s food security and export potential.
Health
Improving medical infrastructure, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and telemedicine partnerships between Nigeria and China.
Manufacturing
Driving industrial manufacturing through technology partnerships, factory setups, and value-chain expansion.
Mining – Facilitating Chinese investments in Nigeria’s solid minerals sector while ensuring sustainable and environmentally responsible extraction practices.
Mining
Facilitating Chinese investments in Nigeria’s solid minerals sector while ensuring sustainable and environmentally responsible extraction practices.
OTHER AREAS
Beyond the primary areas, NCSP also supports:
Financial Services
– Promoting innovative financing models that support SMEs, infrastructure development, and trade financing.
Consumer and Retail
– Enhancing trade in consumer goods, retail expansion, and logistics integration for Nigerian and Chinese markets.
Energy and Natural Resources
– Partnering on oil, gas, and renewable energy projects to drive Nigeria’s energy security.
Government and Public Sector
– Strengthening institutional cooperation for regulatory harmonization, policy formulation, and governance improvement.
Strategic Goals
Key objectives focused on fostering sustainable investments, industrial growth, economic diversification, and mutually beneficial partnerships between Nigeria and China.
Strengthen Bilateral Relations
Champion Tech Transfer
Promote Sustainable Trade
Ease of Doing Business
Project Management
Financial Planning
NCSP BEGINNINGS
President Bola Tinubu (GCFR) Appointed
Mr Joseph Tegbe as Director-General and Global LiASON FOR THE nIGERIA-CHINA strategic partnership
following agreements reached with chinese president Xi Jinping During The forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in September 2024.