seed_url: https://ncsp.gov.ng/minister-for-industry-and-dg-ncsp-outline-key-priorities-for-industrial-transformation/
final_url: https://ncsp.gov.ng/minister-for-industry-and-dg-ncsp-outline-key-priorities-for-industrial-transformation/
title: Minister for Industry and DG NCSP outline Key Priorities for Industrial Transformation
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Minister for Industry and DG NCSP outline Key Priorities for Industrial Transformation
In a bold push to accelerate Nigeria’s industrial transformation under President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Renewed Hope Agenda, the Director-General of the Nigeria-China Strategic Partnership (NCSP), Mr. Joseph Tegbe, met with the Honourable Minister of State for Industry, Trade, and Investment, Sen John Owan Enoh to outline strategic priorities that will drive economic self-reliance and inclusive growth.
While receiving the DG, the Honourable Minister outlined the Federal Government’s focus on revitalizing three critical sectors: Sugar, Cotton-Textile-Garment (CTG), and Automobiles. These sectors—each supported by dedicated industry councils—form the backbone of a broader strategy to boost local production, stimulate domestic demand, and enhance global competitiveness.
Central to this strategy is the Nigerian First Policy, a directive by President Tinubu that mandates all Ministries, Departments, and Agencies to prioritize Nigerian-made goods and services in public procurement. This policy is already reshaping procurement practices, generating jobs, and reducing reliance on imports.
Reinforcing this agenda, DG NCSP Joseph Tegbe affirmed Nigeria’s commitment to transitioning from a consumption-based economy to a production and export-driven industrial power, positioning itself as a development partner to China rather than a mere trading counterpart. Drawing on Brazil’s export success—reaching $94.41 billion in trade with China in 2024—he emphasized Nigeria’s readiness to replicate such growth across sectors including agriculture, mining, and manufacturing.
To fast-track implementation, the Honourable Minister spotlighted the launch of the Industrial Revolution Working Groups (IRWG), a key component of the Presidential Council on Industrial Revitalization Roadmap. These working groups, comprising government and development partners, are driving reforms across infrastructure, access to finance, and technological innovation to revive dormant industries and expand production.
On the investment front, the NCSP is mobilizing leading Chinese firms to set up production facilities in Nigeria. Landmark agreements have been secured with Huawei, China Communications Construction Company (CCCC), Chilwee Group, Choice International Group (CIG) and others across manufacturing, automotive, communication technology, and renewable energy. These partnerships are expected to generate thousands of jobs and accelerate Nigeria’s transition to value-added production.
As Nigeria moves steadily toward industrial self-sufficiency, the Nigeria-China Strategic Partnership remains a vital pillar of the Renewed Hope Agenda, leveraging China’s Belt and Road Initiative to unlock transformative investments that will power long-term, sustainable national development.