seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/30366/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/25170/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government
3 November 2016
09:00
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Dmitry Medvedev: Our countries have a huge transit potential which is not being utilised in full. Special attention should be paid to the renovation of railways, creation of international logistics centres and the integration of advanced technologies in infrastructure.
Dmitry Medvedev’s statement at the meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government
Documents signed following the meeting
Heads
of delegations from Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states:
Group photo of the heads of delegations of SCO member states
3 November 2016
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government
3 November 2016
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government
3 November 2016
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government with Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev
3 November 2016
Signing of documents after an SCO Council of Heads of Government meeting
3 November 2016
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Group photo of the heads of delegations of SCO member states
Prime
Minister of Kazakhstan Bakhytzhan Sagintayev;
Premier
of the State Council of China Li Keqiang;
Acting
Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov;
Prime
Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev;
Prime
Minister of Tajikistan Kokhir Rasulzoda;
First
Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Rustam Azimov.
From
Dmitry Medvedev’s statement at the meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of
Government:
The Shanghai Cooperation
Organisation has been working for 15 years now. Its member countries set the
goal of raising the level of security and trust in the region, and we can see
today that they have reached this goal.
The values that formed the
foundation of the SCO have been implemented in practice, despite the current
international situation and economic difficulties. Together, we resolve a large
number of domestic and international issues, including tasks of great
importance for the region such as ensuring security, the joint fight against
crime and drug trafficking and addressing important economic infrastructure
tasks.
The SCO has become a full-format and effective
organisation. Other countries are seeking to join it. It has a wide-ranging
agenda and has developed multilateral cooperation mechanisms.
Most important, we have a
vision of the future, reflected in the strategy for developing the SCO until
2025, and in the action plan. We will add to these documents today by approving
a list of measures to promote project activities within
the SCO for 2017 – 2021. This will add a range of important new areas to
our work, such as innovative development of our economies.
In today’s world, we need to
develop all possibilities for economic cooperation, establish favourable
conditions for the movement of goods, labour, services and investment, form
added-value chains and enter markets abroad – in each other’s countries and
beyond.
The transition to a
preferential trade regime within the SCO is a complicated matter given that any
preferential regime always requires renunciation of internal decisions of one
kind or another. We have agreed to continue our work in this area. All member
countries’ business and financial communities should be fully involved in this
work, primarily through the SCO Business Council and Interbank Association.
Our countries have an
excellent transit potential that is not being fully utilised today. Russia is
ready for practical implementation of the agreement on international road
transport signed in 2014, and we hope that work on the SCO road development
programme will soon be complete. Particular attention should go to modernising
mainline railways, developing a network of international logistics centres and
spreading modern technology solutions in the infrastructure sector. We should
also start discussing new trans-border routes. This is something that countries
with which we share trade ties hope to see from us.
Russia holds the energy club’s
presidency this year. The particular nature of Russia’s economy means our
country is especially attentive to energy issues. I invite everyone to take
part in the international conference on energy efficiency and energy
conservation that will take place in Moscow on 15–16 November.
Our countries play an active
role in developing integration and promoting big projects in the Eurasian
region. It is important that we make use of the opportunities this creates for
the SCO’s benefit. What we are looking at here is a broad partnership between
the biggest Eurasian integration organisations. The number of such
organisations has grown and we need to ensure that we coordinate our efforts in
the best way possible. Involving the SCO observer countries and dialogue
partners in this work would provide greater balance to our plans and ideas.
The Tashkent summit approved
the programme for developing cooperation in the tourism sector. The agreement
on establishing an SCO university is actually ready for signing now.
The SCO family will soon be
joined by India and Pakistan. The accession of new members not only expands our
organisation’s geographical reach but also enriches the organisation’s
political and economic potential.
Documents signed following the meeting
Signing of documents after an SCO Council of Heads of Government meeting
A number of
documents have been signed following a meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of
Government, including:
Decisions of the
SCO Council of Heads of Government (prime ministers) regarding:
- The
report of the SCO Secretariat on the implementation of the SCO Programme of
Multilateral Trade and Economic Cooperation;
Retrospective
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 15 December 2015
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 15 December 2014
Meeting of the Council of SCO Heads of Government, 29 November 2013
Meeting of the Council of SCO Heads of Government, 5 December 2012
- The
report on the execution of the SCO 2015 Budget;
- The SCO
Budget for 2017;
- The
report of the External Audit Commission on the external audit of the SCO
permanent bodies’ financial and economic operation;
- Further
work to create the SCO Development Bank and Special Account;
- The list
of measures to promote project activities within the SCO for 2017–2021;
- The
concept of research and technological cooperation within the SCO;
- The plan
of measures to implement the SCO intergovernmental agreement on research and
technical cooperation for 2016–2020;
- The draft
programme for road improvement within the SCO.
These decisions
have been signed by Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev, Premier
of the State Council of China Li Keqiang, Acting Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan
Sooronbay Jeenbekov, Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister
of Tajikistan Kohir Rasulzoda and First Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan
Rustam Azimov.
Joint Communique
on the Results of the SCO Council of Heads of Government (prime ministers)
meeting
Signed by Prime
Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev, Premier of the State Council of
China Li Keqiang, Acting Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov,
Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister of Tajikistan Kohir
Rasulzoda and First Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Rustam Azimov.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/25170/
Highlight selection