seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/37872/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/all/37872/
title: All materials
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
24th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
17 September 2019
15:00
St Petersburg
The agenda focused on the main aspects and methods of strengthening bilateral trade and economic cooperation.
Dmitry Medvedev’s remarks at the 24th regular meeting
Documents signed following the meeting
Statements for the press by Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang following the meeting
Excerpts from the transcript:
24th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Dmitry Medvedev:
Premier
of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Mr Li Keqiang,
colleagues,
I am delighted to welcome you to St Petersburg once again. I hope you will
have memorable impressions from this visit to my native city.
On 1 October the People’s Republic of China will mark the 70th anniversary
of its establishment. We congratulate our Chinese friends on this important
date. I would like to remind you that the Soviet Union was the first country to
establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China, which it
did on 2 October 1949. It is notable that today, 70 years later,
Russian-Chinese relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic
cooperation have reached the highest level ever and have entered a new era.
Retrospective
23rd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 7 November 2018
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 1 November 2017
21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 7 November 2016
20th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 17 December 2015
19th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 13 October 2014
18th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 22 October 2013
17th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government, 6 December 2012
We are working together to implement large-scale projects both bilaterally
and within the framework of interstate associations. We stand for respect for international
norms of regulation in the world’s markets. This is especially important in
conditions of imposed trade wars and illegitimate sanctions pressure.
Mutual support and awareness
of our common interests help us address long-term goals, primarily those
related to aligning the Eurasian Economic Union with the Belt and Road project
and establishing a broad economic partnership.
The unique mechanism of
regular meetings between the heads of government of Russia
and China
has continued for nearly a quarter of a century and is yielding important practical
results. More than 300 intergovernmental agreements embracing almost all
spheres of cooperation have been signed.
China is our biggest trade partner. Last year, mutual
trade grew by a quarter to $108 billion. Strong growth has been recorded in the
first half of this year as well. Our goal is to reach $200 billion by 2024. We
are planning to achieve this primarily by implementing joint energy,
industrial, hi-tech and agricultural projects. Of course, we think it is
important to promote new forms of trade and an e-services system.
This meeting’s agenda includes
current issues of bilateral interaction. We will chart new goals and reference
points for collaboration. Important documents aimed at promoting interaction in
various areas will be signed.
Trip
Dmitry Medvedev’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang
We will emphasise our plans in
the energy industry, which include cooperation in the oil industry, coal and
electricity exports, and greater Russian gas supplies to China. Later
this year, we are planning to commission the Russian-Chinese gas pipeline along
an eastern route. Gas production cooperation in the Arctic zone will be
expanded. Major nuclear power projects have reached the implementation stage.
Yet another important, large
area of focus is cooperation in outer space. I am referring to joint lunar missions.
Russia and China intend to
explore the Moon’s surface, address far space issues, and establish a unified
data centre based on these expeditions.
I am confident that the decision to declare 2020
and 2021 Scientific and Innovation Cooperation Years will give a new impetus to
the contacts between scientists and technology experts as well as to joint
research and development.
Initiatives in the automotive industry, aircraft-manufacturing and
pharmaceuticals are being successfully carried out. Of note is the project for
the joint production of a long-range wide-body aircraft and a heavy-lift
civilian helicopter.
Opportunities for cooperation in agriculture look promising: the Cooperation
Plan for soybean growing and distribution is now underway. Similar plans are
being drafted for livestock and other crops; this includes suspending a number
of restrictions on mutual deliveries of agricultural products.
We will continue to implement joint programmes in education, culture,
art, science, tourism and sports, as people-to-people contacts are no less
important than business ties and politics. We are always pleased to have
Chinese tourists in our country, and there are more and more of them. We invite
everyone interested in Russia
to visit our country. 2018 and 2019 are Years of Interregional Cooperation,
which has allowed us to strengthen economic ties, to step up contact at the
individual region level in our countries, and of course, to strengthen cultural
cooperation.
Mr Li Keqiang, colleagues,
I suggest that we listen to the reports by the heads of the respective
intergovernmental commissions on the work they have done during the year.
But before that I would like to give the floor to you, Mr Premier.
Li Keqiang
(retranslated)
I am very happy to visit St Petersburg, which is the Prime Minister’s hometown,
three years after my previous visit and join you in holding the 24
regular meeting of the heads of government of China
and Russia.
This year marks the 70
anniversary of diplomatic relations between
China and Russia, and it
is therefore important for us to congratulate each other on this significant
date. Thank you for sending us greetings on the occasion of the PRC’s
anniversary.
Now comes a new era in Chinese-Russian relations of comprehensive
partnership and strategic interaction. One can say that Chinese-Russian
relations have been developing steadily in a healthy way over the past several
decades. The mechanism of regular meetings between the heads of government of China and Russia has never been suspended, and
each of our meetings is productive.
China and Russia are each
other’s largest neighbours, and we, invariably in the spirit of mutual respect
and equality, are strengthening mutual political trust and promoting practical and
mutually beneficial cooperation.
We are building up people-to-people exchanges based on the principles of
strengthening spiritual ties between our people. Our relations are gradually
rising to a new height, and each meeting lays a solid foundation for the next.
At present, amid
difficult and challenging international economic and political circumstances,
stable and sustainable cooperation between our countries serves as a stabilising
factor not only for the region, but the entire world. It is sending a positive
signal, because our cooperation promotes the development of not only our
countries, but the world. Together, we defend multilateralism, uphold the
multilateral trade system, and contribute to the progress and development of humankind.
The Prime Minister has just covered the issues that are discussed by the
intergovernmental commissions. I also propose listening to the reports by the heads
of the respective intergovernmental commissions.
<…>
Documents signed following the 24
regular meeting of the prime ministers of Russia and China:
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang sign documents
17 September 2019
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang sign documents
17 September 2019
Signing of documents: Maxim Akimov and Vice-Premier of the State Council of China Hu Chunhua sign documents
17 September 2019
CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriyev and President of China Investment Corporation Ju Weimin sign documents
17 September 2019
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang sign documents
Joint communique on the 24
regular meeting of the prime
ministers of Russia and China
Signed by: Prime Minister of Russia
Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqiang
Minutes of the 23
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on
Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime Ministers
Signed by: Deputy Prime Minister of Russia
Maxim Akimov and Vice-Premier of the State Council of China Hu Chunhua
Minutes of the 20
meeting of the Russian-Chinese
Commission on Humanitarian Cooperation
Signed by: Deputy Prime Minister of Russia
Tatyana Golikova and Vice-Premier of the State Council of China Sun Chunlan
Protocol between the Government of the Russian Federation and the
Government of China on the results of the joint inspection of the two sections
of the Russian-Chinese state border
Signed by: Deputy Foreign Minister
of Russia Igor Morgulov and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
China to the Russian Federation Zhang Hanhui
Memorandum of understanding between the Russian Ministry of Digital
Development, Communications and Mass Media and the Chinese Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology on digital technology development
Signed by: Russian Minister of Digital
Development, Communications and Mass Media Konstantin Noskov and Chinese Minister
of Industry and Information Technology Miao Wei
Memorandum on the mutual opening of representative offices for attracting
and promoting investment between the Russian Ministry for the Development of
the Far East and the Arctic, and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce
Signed by: Russian Minister for the
Development of the Far East and the Arctic Alexander Kozlov and Chinese Minister
of Commerce Zhong Shan
Joint statement by the Russian Ministry of Economic Development and the Chinese
Ministry of Commerce on the development of a roadmap for the high-quality
development of Russian-Chinese trade in goods and services by 2024
Signed by: Russian Deputy Minister
of Economic Development Timur Maksimov and Chinese Minister of Commerce Zhong
Shan
Memorandum of understanding between the Russian Ministry of Agriculture
and the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs on cooperation in fighting
the Colorado potato beetle
Signed by: Russian Deputy Minister
of Agriculture Sergei Levin and Chinese Vice Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs Yu Kangzhen
Agreement between the Roscosmos State Space Corporation and China
National Space Administration on cooperation in the development of a joint data
centre for the exploration of the moon and deep space
Signed by: General Director of
Roscosmos Dmitry Rogozin and Director of China National Space Administration
Zhang Kejian
Agreement between the Roscosmos State Space Corporation and China
National Space Administration on cooperation in coordinating the Russian
Luna-Resurs-1 orbiter mission and the Chinese Chang'e 7 mission for exploring
the polar region of the moon
Signed by: General Director of
Roscosmos Dmitry Rogozin and Director of China National Space Administration
Zhang Kejian
Agreement between the Rosatom State Atomiс Energy Corporation and China
Atomic Energy Authority on administrative arrangements concerning the access procedures
for Chinese specialists visiting facilities in the Russian Federation that
carry out work related to the implementation of the 8 June 2018 Agreement
between the Governments of Russia and China on the joint construction and
operation of a demonstration fast neutron reactor in China
Signed by:
Director General of the Rosatom State Atomiс Energy Corporation Alexei Likhachyov
and Head of the China Atomic Energy Authority,
Director of China
National Space Administration Zhang Kejian
Memorandum of understanding
on the further strengthening of cooperation and information exchange in the
scientific and humanitarian spheres between the Russian Union of Scientific and
Engineering Associations and China Association for Science and Technology
Signed by: Vice President of the Russian Union of Scientific and
Engineering Associations Sergei Drukarenko and Executive Secretary of China
Association for Science and Technology Shu Wei
Basic conditions for establishing
a Russian-Chinese joint research and technology innovation fund in the amount
of 1 billion US dollars between the Russian Direct Investment Fund and China Investment
Corporation
Signed by
: CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriyev and
President of China Investment Corporation Ju Weimin
Agreement between the
Russian Direct Investment Fund, the Russia-China Investment Fund and China’s Guangdong
Utrust Investment Holdings on the establishment of the Russian-Chinese fund of
the Greater Bay Area and on comprehensive strategic cooperation
Signed by: CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriyev and
Chairman of the Guangdong Utrust Investment Holdings Yang Rungui
Agreement on the
establishment of a joint venture between CJSC BIOCAD and the Chinese company
Shanghai Pharmaceutical Holding Co.
Signed by: CEO of CJSC BIOCAD Dmitry Morozov and Chairman of Shanghai
Pharmaceutical Holding Co. Zhou Jun
Agreement on the basic
conditions of cooperation between SIBUR Holding PJSC and China Petroleum &
Chemical Corporation (Sinopec) as part of a project to build a facility for the
production of a new type of SEBS thermoplastic elastomers in Russia
Signed by: Managing Director of SIBUR Pavel Lyakhovich and Senior Vice
President of Sinopec Lei Dianwu
Memorandum of understanding
regarding cooperation in the production of nitrile butadiene rubber between
SIBUR Holding PJSC and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (Sinopec)
Signed by: Managing Director of SIBUR Pavel Lyakhovich and Senior Vice
President of Sinopec Lei Dianwu
The
minutes of the 16
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental
Commission on Energy Cooperation was also signed during the 24
regular meeting of the prime ministers of Russia and China.
Statements for the press by Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State
Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang following the 24
regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Excerpts from the transcript:
Statements for the press by Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang following the 24th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Dmitry Medvedev:
Colleagues, ladies and
gentlemen, representatives of the media,
My colleague, Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of
China Li Keqiang, and I held the 24
regular meeting of the Russian
and Chinese heads of government. Our talks showed that the comprehensive
partnership and strategic cooperation between Russia
and China
have entered a new stage. We maintain close dialogue, and our bilateral
practical ties are expanding and taking on new dimensions. This is especially
important since this year we are marking 70 years since the establishment of
diplomatic ties between our country and the People’s Republic of China.
I would like to thank Mr Li Keqiang and all our Chinese colleagues for
their constructive work and friendly attitude in our joint efforts. During the
meeting, we exchanged views on key areas of cooperation. We discussed matters
related to ensuring various connections between the Eurasian Economic Union and
China’s
Belt and Road Initiative. The co-chairs of the intergovernmental commissions in
charge of economic, energy, investment and cultural cooperation presented their
reports. We are committed to further strengthening cooperation across the board
and achieving tangible, mutually beneficial results. This approach made its way
into the joint communiqué that was adopted following the talks.
After the meeting we presided over the signing of more than two dozen
documents. They are all very much important, especially those referring to
cooperation in research and space.
The Economic Development Ministry and China’s Ministry of Commerce
adopted a roadmap for promoting and expanding bilateral trade in goods and
services until 2024. Documents were also
signed by our large companies. They envision large-scale projects in
petrochemicals, production of a new generation of synthetic materials, and
creating a pharmaceutical joint venture.
We are successfully carrying out
a number of major energy projects, including the construction of a gas pipeline
from Russia to China on the
eastern gas-supply route. It will be put into service at the end of the year.
We are cooperating in developing hydrocarbon resources in the Arctic.
We are coordinating our efforts to manufacture a large long-range aircraft and
a heavy-lift helicopter together.
We are consistently working to
remove the barriers that restrict the development of trade in agricultural
products. I am referring to the distribution of Russian soy, grain and a number
of other crops to China.
We are planning to continue to
cooperate in education, the arts, sport and tourism. China’s
festival devoted to the 70 years of diplomatic relations with Russia was a great success in Moscow this weekend. I would like to congratulate
our friends and partners again on this important anniversary, that we will soon
celebrate, and wish them success.
It is very important that
young people are increasingly interested in the culture, language and
traditions of the friendly nations. Youth programmes and student exchanges are being
expanded. We are carrying out a programme for a joint Russian-Chinese
university in Shenzhen under Lomonosov
Moscow State
University and the
Beijing Institute of Technology.
This is just a brief list of the
items that we discussed with our Chinese friends. In general, Russian-Chinese relations
now encompass practically all areas.
In conclusion, I would like to
thank my colleague Premiere Li Keqiang
and all of our Chinese friends for their productive work.
Li Keqiang
(retranslated)
Mr Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, my dear
friends, I am very happy that Prime Minister Medvedev and I have held our 24
regular meeting, and I am happy to have this opportunity to meet with you, my
friends from the media. Meeting in the limited and expanded formats, the Prime Minister
and I expressed our common positions to the effect that in the current uncertain
political and economic global situation, with many factors of instability,
China and Russia, being each other’s largest neighbors and permanent UN
Security Council members, are ready to jointly promote bilateral relations that
facilitate stability and development in our region. We are motivated to maintain
peace all over the world for the sake of humanity’s progress.
The preservation of long-term,
deep and stable ties between Russia
and China
benefits not only our two countries but the world in general. This year we mark
the 70
anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries.
We appreciate the format of the regular meetings of the heads of government,
which has never been suspended. All participants in these meetings are working together
and we are grateful to Russia
for its assistance and support.
Our common approaches are reflected
in this signed joint communiqué. Our cooperation, in part, in the practical area,
is all-embracing. It is not limited to traditional areas but also applies to
breakthroughs in other areas including the energy and nuclear power industry.
We have just witnessed the signing of a number of cooperation agreements on processing
and marketing oil and gas. A desire was expressed to
develop cooperation in e-commerce and scientific and technological research. Together,
we have created a foundation of joint scientific and technological innovations.
In fundamental and applied research, we are willing to use our competitive edge
to advance our scientific and technical cooperation in order to break new
ground and thus promote the continuing development of humankind.
We are also
cooperating in aviation and space research, as well as in developing innovative
materials. Today we are meeting in St Petersburg,
which is a beautiful city with access to the sea and the Gulf
of Finland. This is symbolic of the fact that we are meeting in a
place that is famous throughout the world for its traditions of openness.
Our openness goes both ways. During
our talks, Prime Minister Medvedev and I noted that energy cooperation accounts
for more than two thirds of our cooperation. But we are now promoting a
comprehensive format for cooperation, which includes refining. Not only exploration
and marketing, but refining as well.
We in China have begun to open
up to all countries, in particular, the leading companies in Germany and the United
States, which now can create their own factories in China to process ethylene,
with a major capacity of over 10 million tonnes a year.
We are interested in
participating in upstream operations. I am referring to exploration and
production of hydrocarbons in Russia
which, I am sure, will allow us to double our trade numbers. I am confident
that we will achieve our goal if we join our efforts.
We are also ready to
strengthen cooperation in basic research.
I very much appreciate the outcome
of our meeting. Thank you.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/all/37872/
Highlight selection