seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/49881/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/49881/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
25 October 2023
18:30
The meeting took place on the sidelines of the SCO heads of government summit.
Mikhail Mishustin with Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
25 October 2023
Mikhail Mishustin with Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
25 October 2023
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Mikhail Mishustin with Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
Excerpts from
the transcript:
Mikhail
Mishustin:
Mr Oyun-Erdene, greetings! First of all, please
convey best wishes to President of Mongolia Mr Khurelsukh from
President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, and from me personally.
I fondly recall my meeting with the President in December 2021 during his visit to Russia.
Mongolia is our strategic partner. Our relations are based on centuries-old friendship, cooperation, and mutual support of the peoples of Russia and Mongolia.
We also value our traditions of military brotherhood –
next year we will celebrate the 85th anniversary of our joint victory in the battle on the Khalkhin Gol River.
Over 10,000 soldiers and commanders of the Red Army gave their lives for the freedom and independence of Mongolia
in that decisive battle with militarist Japan.
And we faithfully preserve the memory of the support
that Mongolia
provided to our country during the Great Patriotic War.
The Russian side gives priority attention to expanding
trade and economic cooperation with Mongolia and implementing strategic
projects in energy, industry, transport and culture.
Last year, our trade grew by 41 percent to 180 billion
Russian roubles, or 8 trillion Mongolian tugriks.
Not long ago, the 25
meeting of the Joint
Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation took place with Viktoria
Abramchenko visiting hospitable Ulan-Bator to participate in it.
Education is high on our list of cooperation projects.
Over 60,000 Mongolian students have successfully completed their studies at Russian universities and secondary education institutions. We will continue to expand the government quota for Mongolian students to study at Russian
universities. The tuition will be covered from the federal budget.
Our nations are united by extensive cultural ties. In May, the Russian House in Ulan-Bator hosted an exhibition from the Russian
National Museum of Music commemorating the 150
anniversary of the birth of outstanding Russian composer Sergei Rachmaninoff.
Esteemed Mr Oyun-Erdene, we have an extensive agenda
to cover, and I am pleased to invite you to be our next speaker.
Visit
Meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of Government
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Meeting of the SCO Heads of Government Council
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with First Vice President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Mokhber
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang
Briefing by Alexei Overchuk following the meetings of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, the CIS Council of Heads of Government and the SCO Council of Heads of Government
Luvsannamsrai Oyun-Erdene
via
interpreter
): Esteemed Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr Mishustin, this meeting is taking place
following the meeting between the presidents of our countries during the Belt
and Road summit in China.
As you rightly noted, we have recently held a meeting of the intergovernmental
commission. It is profoundly symbolic that we are now meeting to discuss
bilateral cooperation.
To commemorate the centenary of diplomatic relations,
we had a telephone conversation where I offered my congratulations on that
significant milestone.
We also celebrated the centenary of our People's
Revolution and our nation's independence. The 100-year history of our
sovereignty and independence is closely tied to our friendly relations and cooperation with Russia.
As we are entering the 101
year of our
relations, regrettably, we have encountered shared challenges, such as the Covid-19 pandemic and aggravated geopolitical situation.
However, it is important to note that during this
century of partnership and friendly ties, we have achieved remarkable feats,
including the victory at Khalkhin Gol. We will commemorate the 85
anniversary of joint victory in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol next year.
I heard your grandfather took part in that battle. As you accurately pointed out, and the President of the Russian Federation also noted that
10,000 Red Army soldiers laid down their lives for our country’s independence
and sovereignty. Mongolian soldiers stood side by side with your soldiers to defend our shared interests.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my readiness to share a meal of borscht with you in Moscow.
Mikhail
Mishustin
: We can consider doing so in Bishkek as well.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/49881/
Highlight selection