seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/18664/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/18664/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Ceremony to mark the start of construction of China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route gas pipeline
29 June 2015
12:30
Government House, Moscow
The ceremony was held as a videoconference with Moscow, Beijing and Heihe.
Remarks
by Wang Yilin, Chairman of the China National Petroleum Corporation
Remarks
by Dmitry Medvedev
Remarks
by Zhang Gaoli, First Vice Premier of the People's Republic of China
Excerpts from the transcript:
Dmitry Medvedev with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and Minister of Energy Alexander Novak during the ceremony to mark the start of construction of China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route gas pipeline
Wang Yilin
Chairman of the China National Petroleum
Corporation
, via interpreter)
1 September 2014,
Russia
hosted a groundbreaking ceremony
for the Power of Siberia pipeline
, attended by Russian President
Vladimir Putin andZhang Gaoli, First Vice Premier of the People's
Republic of China.
Today, we are holding a ceremony to mark the start of construction of China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route
gas pipeline during a videoconference in Beijing,
Moscow and the construction site in the city of Heihe.
On 21 May 2014, the China National Petroleum
Corporation and Gazprom signed a contract for gas deliveries via the Eastern
route in the presence of Chinese and Russian leaders. Under this document, Russia will deliver gas to China from 2018
for a period of 30 years, and it will expand annual delivery volumes to 38
billion cubic metres. In August 2014 and in May 2015, this contract was
approved by the Governments of China and Russia, and it has already entered
into force. China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route
gas pipeline starts at a station in the city of Heihe,
Heilongjiang province, and stretches eastwards
to its terminus in Shanghai.
The 3,170-km pipeline crosses nine provinces: Heilongjiang,
Jilin, Inner Mongolia,
Liaoning, Hebei,
Shandong, Tianjin,
Jiangsu, and Shanghai. Nine underground gas reservoirs will be built.
Dmitry Medvedev speaks during the ceremony to mark the start of construction of China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route gas pipeline. From left: Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of China to Russia, Li Hui, and Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov
Dmitry Medvedev:
Indeed, this project became
possible only due to an extremely high level of truly strategic cooperation
between Russia and China.
Construction of the
gas pipeline will considerably expand our energy cooperation, as well as cooperation
in affiliated industries, and it will provide powerful impetus to deepening
cooperation between Russian regions and those in the People’s Republic of China.
Construction of the
Power of
Siberia pipeline was launched ten months ago and is proceeding as planned. I
don’t doubt the fact that everyone involved in this project will fulfil their
obligations on time and in full.
The gas pipeline’s route will pass along the Eastern
Siberia–Pacific Ocean (ESPO) oil trunk pipeline that has linked Siberian
oilfields with the Asia Pacific market. This will make it possible to
streamline overall energy spending and infrastructure expenses.
Russia’s large mineral deposits in its eastern regions and
the creation of local transport corridors will make it possible to create a new
gas delivery route for the People’s Republic of China and our other partners. The Power of Siberia pipeline
will allow us to expand gas exports and to provide gas to our Far Eastern and Eastern
Siberian regions more quickly. The route has been chosen in such a way as to
provide gas to as many Russian cities and villages as possible. And this means
that we will improve people’s living standards, we will improve the regional
environment, and we will be able to establish cost-effective production
facilities, to create jobs there, to make the economy more competitive, and to
attract additional investment in these territories.
Dmitry Medvedev speaks during the ceremony to mark the start of construction of China’s leg of the Sino-Russian Eastern route gas pipeline
We are planning to continue cooperating with our
Chinese friends in the oil and gas sector and in other areas, including the
civilian nuclear power industry, the coal industry, power engineering, and developing
new sources of energy. I’m confident that we will soon finalise agreements for
building the second Russian-Chinese gas pipeline along the western route.
Zhang Gaoli
(First Vice Premier of the People's Republic of China, via interpreter)
In September 2014, I arrived in Russia to attend the groundbreaking ceremony for the Power of Siberia pipeline
in Yakutsk together with President Vladimir Putin. Today, we are launching
construction of the Chinese leg of this gas pipeline, marking the start of what
will become a continental energy corridor uniting China
and Russia.
Total gas deliveries along this route will exceed one trillion cubic metres.
The 30-year project is worth over $400 billion. It is rightly considered a major
long-term strategic gas project in the world. Implementation of this project is
helping turn Russia’s
resource-based advantage into an economic advantage. It will develop the
economies of regions located along this route, which is very important for
diversifying the energy strategy of both countries and ensuring their energy
security. This project will certainly have a very positive influence on the
structure of global energy cooperation.
We are ready to work with our Russian partners and focus
all our resources and efforts on making sure construction goes smoothly and the
pipeline begins operating in 2018 as planned.
China and Russia
are each other’s largest neighbours and all-round strategic partners. As
countries with full-fledged markets, they should increase mutual support in the
future, expand mutual openness, and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation,
which is in the long-term interests of both countries and also underwrites regional
and global development and prosperity.
Both sides are
proceeding from their long-term economic interests and the realities in each
country, and they should enjoy the full benefit of the advantages offered by the
complementarity of our economies. They should actively promote the implementation
of major joint energy projects, including long-term crude oil trade, the
East-West gas pipeline, the development of oil and gas fields, as well as the
integrated development of thermal power stations and power engineering. We need
to promote comprehensive cooperation in the non-raw materials sector, including
the development of a wide-body aircraft, heavy helicopters, construction of the
Moscow-Kazan high-speed railway, construction of a trans-border railway bridge
between Nizhneleninskoye and Tonjiang. We need to continue expanding mutually
beneficial investment cooperation in the manufacturing, financial and
agriculture sectors and for the development of the Russian Far East. We need to
successfully implement joint construction projects related to the Silk Road economic belt and the Eurasian Economic Union.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/18664/
Highlight selection