seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/43045/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/43045/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
20 August 2021
08:45
Cholpon-Ata, Kyrgyz Republic
Mikhail Mishustin: “The pandemic has demonstrated that our union is able to quickly and easily adapt to various challenges and changes. Thanks to our joint actions, the EAEU economy is gradually recovering. In the first six months of this year, the output of agricultural produce grew 0.6 percent, industrial production by 4.4 percent, and the manufacturing industry output, by 6.5 percent.”
Heads of delegations attending the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
20 August 2021
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
20 August 2021
Signing of documents adopted at the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
20 August 2021
Mikhail Mishustin during the signing of documents following the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
20 August 2021
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Heads of delegations attending the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
Documents signed following a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
List of heads of delegations
attending the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Visit
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan Ulukbek Maripov
Mikhail Mishustin took part in Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov’s talks with delegation heads, participants in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Roman Golovchenko
Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting in restricted format
Prime Minister
of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan;
Prime Minister
of Belarus Roman Golovchenko;
Prime Minister
of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin;
Prime Minister
of Kyrgyzstan Ulukbek Maripov;
Prime Minister
of Russia Mikhail Mishustin;
Prime Minister
of Cuba Manuel Marrero Cruz (video address);
Prime Minister
of Uzbekistan Abdulla Aripov;
Chairman of the
Eurasian Economic Commission Board Mikhail Myasnikovich.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
meeting
From the transcript:
Good afternoon,
colleagues, Mr Mamin, Mr Maripov.
First of all, I
would like to join my colleagues in expressing sincere gratitude to our Kyrgyz
friends for the warm welcome and excellent organisation of our meeting.
We have a packed
agenda, with the coronavirus response efforts at the top. It is certainly of
the essence to protect our citizens from this dangerous disease. It has become obvious
by now that the most reliable way to do it is vaccination.
Residents of our
five countries have more and more opportunities to get vaccinated with highly
effective and safe vaccines that have been developed in our country. Kazakhstan
and Belarus have already launched their own production of the Russian Sputnik V
vaccine. The first batches of the vaccine have also been produced in
Uzbekistan. Our specialists will continue to provide assistance and scientific
and technological support for the vaccine production.
The use of the
COVID-19-Free Travel mobile app also helps to curb the spread of the infection.
Those arriving in Russia can use it to confirm the results of their negative
tests. It is simple and convenient.  After
a successful pilot trial of the project, all five EAEU countries as well as
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan joined it.  I
am sure that this step will help them quickly restore the free and safe
movement of their citizens.
Colleagues,
The pandemic has shown us that
our union can promptly and flexibly adapt to all kinds of challenges and
changes. It is thanks to our joint efforts that the economy of the EAEU is
gradually being restored. The speakers have been mentioning this today.
Macroeconomic indices on the whole do not look so bad.
During the first six months of
the year, agricultural output increased by 0.6 percent, industrial output by
4.4 percent and the processing industry output by 6.5 percent.
We are also witnessing some very
positive trends when it comes to development of mutual trade. It has increased
by 33 percent within the union and with third countries by 19.1 percent since
the onset of the year.
It is necessary to continue
eliminating barriers getting in the way of the free flow of goods, services,
capital, and personnel. Over 50 such obstacles have already been lifted; twelve
of them last year.
Of course, there is still a
lot to do. Today we will approve an updated list of exactions and limitations
that need to be got rid of in 2021 and 2022. I suggest we develop a roadmap for
this period of time and then that we stick to it.
The creation of a joint
digital space will also help to improve the integration. We should create
conditions for a prompt digital transformation of our economies and we should introduce
advanced technologies and practices.
There have been certain
results already. In early July, the first joint project, Work Without Borders
unified search system, was launched. Using this service, one can find a job vacancy
or personnel within the entire union. This is an example of how advanced
solutions can open new horizons for the development of an entire sector. In
this case, the common labour market as the union’s main value.
Advanced technologies are
irreplaceable when it comes to counteracting illegal trading of goods. The
implementation of agreements on traceability and labelling is helping to
improve the transparency of the movement of goods within the EAEU. It is
necessary to promptly complete the development of a draft agreement on the use
of electronic navigation markers to trace shipments to create a unified,
seamless system of the transit of goods.
Other economic sectors also
should be digitalised. To do so, we will create a working group on digital
transformation in the union and adopt a relevant directive of the Intergovernmental
Council.
There is another important thing
too. Every single year, global demand grows for organic produce. People want to
be able buy food that is not full of pesticides, preservatives and food
additives. It is necessary to ensure free movement of such goods. Today we plan
on approving a relevant roadmap. To make eco-products more accessible, we need
to set up unified requirements for their production, labelling and
certification.
Working together on the
improvement of the transport and logistics system is also of utmost importance.
Today, we will sign a memorandum on facilitating sustainable development of
transit potential and environmental safety of shipment by rail.
Companies from Russia, Belarus
and Kazakhstan will develop additional tools to speed up the digital
transformation in this field and also introduce technological innovations and
reduce carbon emissions.
We consider it necessary to
combine our efforts on the climate track. Teamwork is necessary to stop global
changes as well as to protect the environment and to preserve nature for the
future generations. Together we can develop efficient solutions in this sphere.
President of Russia Vladimir
Putin suggested creating a bank of climate data and digital initiatives on
calculating carbon footprint in the union. It will help businesses work on trying
to improvethe environment and will also improve competitiveness of the
economies. In our opinion, a special working group should be engaged in working
out these matters, including the harmonisation of regulations dealing with greenhouse
gas emissions.
In conclusion, I would just like
to say a very few words about international cooperation between the five member
states. The interest of the global community in expanding trade and economic
ties with our association continues growing.
In July, a trade agreement
with Serbia came into force. Talks are being held with Egypt. Starting
negotiations with India and Iran have been approved on the liberalisation of
trade. The possibility to create a free trade zone with Indonesia and Mongolia
is also being discussed.
Cooperation with China has
also been improving, including what relates to aligning the union with the Belt
and Road initiative. All of this will facilitate a sustainable and dynamic
development of the EAEU and the promotion of the initiative of the President of
Russia Vladimir Putin to create a Greater Eurasian partnership.
Colleagues,
The work we have been doing
within the Eurasian Union has a direct impact on the economies of our
countries. It is important to make the EAEU a truly successful association that
can act efficiently in the current difficult conditions. I am sure that we can cope
with this strategic task if we stick together.
Documents signed following a meeting
of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Directive on the List of Priority Measures to Digitalise Rail Freight in the
Interests of Developing Trade and Economic Cooperation Between the Eurasian
Economic Union and its Member States, on One Side, and the People’s Republic of
China, on the Other;
Directive on Insurance Support for Mutual and Foreign Trade Between the Member
States of the Eurasian Economic Union;
Instruction related to the alignment of unilateral non-tariff measures during
the export of goods, as well as export customs duties;
Instruction related to the creation of a Eurasian (regional) organisation for
conformity assessment accreditation;
– Directive on the List of Exactions and Limitations on
the Domestic Market of the Eurasian Economic Union to be Eliminated in 2021-2022;
Directive on Creating a High-Level Working Group on Digital Transformation in
the Eurasian Economic Union;
Decision on Amending the Procedure for the Official Publication of International
Agreements within the Eurasian Economic Union, International Agreements between
the Eurasian Economic Union and Third Countries, Their Integration Associations
and International Organisations, as well as Decisions by Eurasian Economic
Union Agencies;
Directive on Creating a High-Level Working Group to Develop Proposals to Align
the Positions of the Member States of the Eurasian Economic Union on the Climate
Agenda;
Directive on the Annual Report by the Eurasian Economic Commission on the Monitoring
of the Assessment of the Regulating Effect of Draft Decisions by the Eurasian
Economic Commission in 2020;
Directive on the Action Plan (Roadmap) for the Implementation of the Guidelines
and Stages of Pursuing a Coordinated (Concerted) Transit Policy of the Eurasian
Economic Union Member States for 2021-2023;
Directive on the Action Plan (Roadmap) for the Formation of a Common Market for
Organic Agricultural Products within the Eurasian Economic Union;
Directive on Ensuring Equal Conditions to Participate in the Programme of
Purchasing Agricultural Machinery and Equipment in the Republic of Kazakhstan
for the Producers of the Eurasian Economic Union and Third Countries;
Instruction related to the implementation of the project Automated Cross-Border
Trade and Payment Integrated System;
Directive on the Placement and Distribution of Import Customs Duties between
the Budgets of the Member States of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2020;
and other directives.
The Memorandum on Facilitating the Sustainable
Development of the Transit Potential and Environmental Safety of Railway
Transportation in the Eurasian Economic Union was also signed on the sidelines
of the meeting.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/43045/
Highlight selection