seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/42102/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/42102/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Extended meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
30 April 2021
11:00
The participants discussed topical matters related to the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the meeting
Documents signed following the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
List of heads of delegations attending the meeting of the Eurasian
Intergovernmental Council
Acting Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia
Nikol Pashinyan;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus
Roman Golovchenko;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
Chairman of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council Askar Mamin;
Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic
Ulukbek Maripov;
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mikhail
Mishustin;
Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic
Commission Mikhail Myasnikovich
The Eurasian Economic Union’s observer
states
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Abdulla Aripov;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Cuba Manuel
Marrero Cruz (
speaking
via videoconference
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Cuba
to the Russian Federation
Julio Garmendia Peña;
Acting Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova Aurel
Ciocoi (
speaking
via videoconference
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Moldova
to the Russian Federation
Vladimir Golovatyuk
Invited guests:
Prime Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan
Kohir Rasulzoda
Deputy Prime Minister of Turkmenistan,
Chairman of the Supreme Control Chamber of Turkmenistan Serdar
Berdimuhamedov
Extended meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks:
Good afternoon, colleagues,
Dear friends, I am delighted to welcome you to the Russian Federation and Kazan. This wonderful city always receives
guests in the warmest and most hospitable manner. It may be symbolic, but one
of its central streets is named in honour of the First President of Kazakhstan
Nursultan Nazarbayev who, in effect, became the architect of Eurasian
integration.
It is important that our association is developing
successfully and is becoming a regional centre of economic attraction. And we
are open to mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation. Observer states,
namely, Cuba, Moldova and Uzbekistan, are attending our meeting. Uzbek partners
and the Eurasian Economic Commission have managed to launch systemic dialogue
over a short time period. Today, we will attend the signing ceremony for the
memorandum of cooperation between Uzbekistan and the Eurasian Economic
Commission. An action plan for implementing it in the next three years will
also be signed.
I would like to separately welcome Prime Minister of
Tajikistan and Deputy Prime Minister of Turkmenistan, the esteemed Mr Kohir
Rasulzoda and Mr Serdar Berdimuhamedov. I would like to thank them for coming
and attending our meeting today as guests. I am convinced that they will find
our meeting interesting and informative.
Other countries are also becoming interested in the
Union. We have received over 50 proposals on signing preferential trade
agreements. This opens up additional opportunities for speeding up economic
growth, in the first place.
The COVID-19 response effort remains one of our
priorities, all the more so as some states, primarily European states, are
facing an expanding third wave of the pandemic. We need joint systemic measures
that will make it possible to contain the infection. As we have repeatedly
noted, the user-friendly and reliable mobile app called Travelling without COVID-19
has already been launched. Negative COVID-19 test results are uploaded from
certified laboratories. Our citizens can therefore show these test results when
entering any specific country. So far, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Russia
are actively involved in the project. We hope that Kazakhstan will join us
soon. It is important to expand the app by including vaccination data. I
believe that its wide-scale use will make it possible to more quickly resume the
safe passenger traffic that our citizens need.
We are working in difficult times and facing the
pandemic, regional crises and trade wars. These problems are aggravated by
Western interference in the domestic affairs of other states, as well as by
powerful political and economic pressure. Even in these conditions, we are
making effective decisions in order to strengthen the common market and lift
restrictions on the movement of the workforce, goods, services and capital.
Our joint projects aim to facilitate economic growth
and raise the well-being of our citizens, as noted by President of the Russian
Federation Vladimir Putin in his Federal Assembly Address last week.
We will have to work hard. First of all, we have to
implement strategic long-term Eurasian integration guidelines up to 2025. We
have already approved an action plan aiming to draft over ten international
treaties and 60 regulatory documents for the Union. It is also necessary to
modify the current Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
We are also completing preparations for some events.
There are plans to sign an agreement on the procedure for exchanging credit histories
within the Union before the year is out. Our citizens and legal entities will
be able to take out loans in all five member states. Consequently, banks will
be able to check borrowers’ data.
We will continue to create a common digital platform
and to implement joint healthcare initiatives and those in other fields. We
will do our best to overcome the consequences of the pandemic and to attain
sustainable economic growth in our countries and the entire Union.
Some aspects require special attention. First of all,
this includes efforts to remove obstacles in the Union’s domestic market. Not
all barriers and restrictions have been lifted yet. But we have launched system-wide
work, and we continue to actively search for optimal solutions. We will also expand
cooperation to increase the safety of goods being supplied within the Eurasian
Economic Union. We will jointly work to prevent the spread of new dangerous
plant viruses in the Union. This issue is also included in the meeting agenda.
It is important to expand co-production arrangements
that will expedite import substitution programmes needed by all our countries
and the entire Union. And, of course, they will strengthen the economic
security of our countries.
There are substantial opportunities for expanding
cooperation in the field of space exploration. Quite recently, on 12 April, the
world marked the 60
anniversary of the first manned space mission of
Yuri Gagarin. His spacecraft lifted off from Baikonur and landed on the banks
of Russia’s great Volga River. We believe that our interstate programme has
serious prospects in this field. In the next five years, we will develop a
joint space system. This calls for merging our countries’ satellite clusters,
setting up a joint database that would contain the joint space system’s orbital
photos and upgrading ground-based data acquisition and processing facilities. This
grouping will operate as a common space system. This will make it possible to
observe a larger territory and to quickly obtain all the required data.
I would like to single out another topic. The
coronavirus pandemic has seriously affected global markets. National
governments should coordinate intra-Union export regulation measures to curb
consumer prices. Of course, this mostly concerns agricultural produce and raw
materials. This is a sensitive issue for the citizens of our countries.
Colleagues, the Eurasian Economic Union is a powerful
organisation which is always open to cooperation. Our Union should become the
main link in building the Greater Eurasian Partnership. Regardless of the
global situation, we have to expand contacts with our nearest partners,
primarily the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Shanghai Cooperation
Organisation and BRICS. We are interested in conducting constructive dialogue
with the European Union on equitable terms and principles of mutual respect.
And, of course, it is important to continue jointly implementing major and
economically sound projects with other states, including those aiming to merge
with the China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Thank
you.
Documents
signed following the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Instruction
regarding the issue Implementing Instruction No. 6 of the Eurasian Intergovernmental
Council dated 31 January 2020
Instruction regarding the issue Standardising
the Rates of Export Customs Duties
Instruction regarding the issue Standardising
the Rates of Export Customs Duties
Instruction
regarding the issue Measures to Protect the Agricultural Produce Market of the
Eurasian Economic Union from Dangerous Plant Viruses
Decision
regarding the issue Amending Decision No. 2 of the Eurasian Intergovernmental
Council dated 10 April 2020
Directive
Providing Equal Opportunities for Participating in the Programme of Purchasing
Farming Machinery and Equipment in the Republic of Kazakhstan for Producers of
the Eurasian Economic Union and Third Countries
Instruction
regarding the issue Results of Consultations on Measures of Economic Pressure Exerted
by Third Parties on Member States of the Eurasian Economic Union
Decision
regarding the issue Industrial Cooperation Guidelines within the Eurasian
Economic Union up to 2025
Directive Submitting the Candidacy of a Member of the Council of the
Eurasian Economic Commission to the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Directive Submitting the
Candidacy of a Member of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission to the
Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Directive Submitting the
Candidacy of a Member of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission to the
Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/42102/
Highlight selection