seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/33404/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/29822/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
25 October 2017
11:00
Yerevan, Republic of Armenia
Dmitry Medvedev: “We see that in general, the common market is gradually revealing its potentialities. In the first half of the year the aggregate GDP of the Eurasian Union grew by 1.8 percent. Importantly, the growth was registered in all countries without exception. Trade inside the union increased by almost 28 percent. Foreign trade with third countries went up by almost 26 percent.”
Dmitry Medvedev’s speech at
the meeting
Documents
following the meeting
List of the heads of delegations participating in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting:
Group photo of the heads of delegations participating in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
25 October 2017
Eurasian Intergovernmental Council limited attendance meeting
25 October 2017
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Group photo of the heads of delegations participating in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Karen Karapetyan
Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Andrei Kobyakov
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev
Prime Minister
of Kyrgyzstan Sapar Isakov
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev
Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Tigran Sargsyan
Retrospective
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  14 August 2017
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  26 Mау 2017
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  16  November 2016
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  27 October  2017
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  12 Аugust 2016
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council 20 May 2016
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  13 April 2016
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  8 September 2015
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  29 May 2015
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council  6 February 2015
Excerpts from Dmitry Medvedev’s speech at the
meeting:
In the union
we are forming a space for the free movement of goods and services, capital and
workforce. This is the result of our dialogue and compromises as well as opportunity
and desire to listen to each other and make decisions. We see that in general,
the common market is gradually revealing its potentialities.
In the first
half of the year the aggregate GDP of the Eurasian Union grew by 1.8 percent.
Importantly, the growth was registered in all countries without exception.
Trade inside the union increased by almost 28 percent. Foreign trade with third
countries went up by almost 26 percent. The most notable progress has been made
in industry, agriculture, cargo shipments and passenger transport.
At this point
the main tasks are as follows.
The first goal is to
effectively and consistently remove barriers as well as exemptions in trade.
This year alone, 14 such barriers have been removed and we intend to eliminate
at least 20 more. Other activities to be covered by this measure include
industrial production, agriculture, energy and technical regulation.
Second, it is necessary to
develop self-regulation. The reviewed Customs Code enters into force on 1 January.
It is a more serious and advanced document compared to the current code. The
new Customs Code contains comprehensive rules of the transfer of goods across
the customs border and removes discrepancies in regulation. I hope everybody
will follow these rules.
There are certain difficulties
in correlating domestic and union-wide rates, the pricing in the gas, oil and
oil product markets. There is still room for improvement. Of course, we are not
a union of oil and gas producers. Some of the Eurasian Union members have no
oil or gas deposits. Moreover, we are earning more revenues from goods other
than hydrocarbons. I am talking particularly about Russia whose rank in this
market is well known. Our revenues from other exports are in fact higher than
those from hydrocarbon exports.
We discuss new energy sources.
Let’s not lower the bar for the objectives of our integration group.
Today, we will make a decision
regarding the organisation of the common electric power market. Our countries
will develop an integrated b2b system that will connect companies directly.
It is important to extend the
agenda with new promising areas that will contribute to further growth. The
areas of focus here are united by the term “digital economy” and include
e-commerce, new production technology, data protection together with many other
fields.
Two weeks ago the heads of state endorsed the main features
of the union’s digital agenda.
The work of the common market should be free of
imbalances and quasi-legal schemes. The labelling of goods is one of the most
efficient mechanisms with regard to this. It is necessary to speed up domestic
procedures on the draft agreement so as to make it possible to use a labelling system
for different groups of goods, improve the market and so help counter
counterfeit products.
It would be best to discuss such topics primarily in a
bilateral format without avoiding any discussions. This would be better for business.
The issue concerning the situation with  the sugar market has been included on the
agenda at Russia’s initiative. As of August 1, the wholesale price of sugar
dropped by almost 44 percent, to that of the level of 2014. This is bound to
worry us because we produce a lot of sugar. We agreed to jointly analyse
preferential tariffs on the imports of sugar as well as make a decision that
will help redress this situation.
We also discussed flight incidents. We plan to establish
an independent international body that will conduct non-partial and objective inquires
into such incidents with due account of the close integration of the economies
of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
Next year the chairmanship in the EAEU will pass over
to Russia. I would like to sincerely thank the Kyrgyz Republic for the job it
has done. During the past year we progressed substantially in all areas of the
development of integration. Next year we must continue fulfilling the strategic
integration tasks, consolidate the institutes of the union plus speed up the
promotion of vital initiatives.
We will have to pay special attention to the
international positioning of the union and its activities on the world arena.
Russia is now drafting a document on the priorities of its chairmanship that we
would like to discuss with our partners.
Documents
signed following the meeting of the Eurasian Economic Council:
Decision on the order of reviewing initiatives on implementing the
digital agenda of the Eurasian Economic Union;
Directive on
a plan of action (roadmap) on removing limitations and restrictions on the
domestic market of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2018−2019;
Instruction
on the additional package of measures on controlling the movement of goods as
regards to which the Russian Federation takes unilateral special economic
measures;
Instruction
on the analysis of the situation taking shape on the sugar markets of the EAEU
member countries;
Directive on
establishing a body for making inquiries into flight accidents;
Instruction
on a draft agreement on navigation;
Directive on
certain issues of information exchange on the EAEU common electric power market;
Decision on
endorsing a plan of action (roadmap) of the main areas and stages of implementing
coordinated (agreed upon) transport policy of the member states of the Eurasian
Economic Union in 2018−2020;
Directive on
a draft agreement on the identification labelling of goods within Eurasian
Economic Union;
Directive on
holding the Eurasian Week Forum in 2018−2020;
Agreement on
the circulation of agricultural crop seeds within the Eurasian Economic Union.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/29822/
Highlight selection