seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/34600/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/25196/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
The 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
7 November 2016
13:30
St Petersburg
The meeting focused on key aspects of Russian-Chinese cooperation in trade, the economy, investment, energy, inter-regional and border projects, as well as humanitarian cooperation.
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqiang
Dmitry Medvedev’s remarks at the 21
regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Signed documents
News conference with Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang following the 21st
regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqian
Excerpts from the transcript:
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqiang
7 November 2016
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqiang
7 November 2016
The 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
7 November 2016
The 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
7 November 2016
Signing documents following the 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
7 November 2016
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
7 November 2016
Closing review ceremony of the joint project Ten Masterpieces of Chinese Literature in Russia and Ten Masterpieces of Russian Literature in China
7 November 2016
Closing review ceremony of the joint project Ten Masterpieces of Chinese Literature in Russia and Ten Masterpieces of Russian Literature in China
7 November 2016
A visit to the State Hermitage Museum
7 November 2016
A visit to the State Hermitage Museum
7 November 2016
A visit to the State Hermitage Museum
7 November 2016
A visit to the State Hermitage Museum
7 November 2016
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Premier of the State Council of China Li Keqiang
Dmitry Medvedev:
Russia and China are bound by strategic partnership and
cooperation. We are truly friends. We share a common approach to many global issues,
take part in multilateral meetings, including such important platforms as the
UN, G20, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and BRICS, and implement large
projects, including the alignment of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Silk
Road Economic Belt.
Li Keqiang
(via interpreter)
China and Russia are large
neighbouring countries and all-round strategic partners. Regular meetings of
Russian and Chinese heads of government have never been discontinued in the
past 21 years and are always held according to a schedule. It proves the stable
and rapid development of China-Russia relations. In international affairs, we
also maintain contact and coordinate with each other. As permanent members of
the UN Security Council, we together defend the United Nations Charter and
support stability and peace in the region.
<…>
Dmitry
Medvedev’s remarks at the 21
regular meeting of Russian and
Chinese heads of government
Excerpts from the transcript
The 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
These regular meetings between
the Russian and Chinese heads of government are really quite original in the
sense that we have no such mechanism in place with any other country. They
fulfil the very important function of giving concrete substance to our
relations and offer us the opportunity to discuss promising projects as part of
our comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation. This work always
includes reports from our government colleagues and from the four
intergovernmental commissions.
We have decided to establish a
fifth intergovernmental commission that will be responsible for cooperation in
the Russian Far East and northeast China. This is evidence of just what extent
our practical cooperation has.
The global economic situation
is far from straightforward today, and this has affected our bilateral balance
too, though it has improved this year.
We have prepared a large
package of documents that reflect the current state of relations in our
partnership and signal new stages in developing the trade, economic, social and
humanitarian ties between our countries.
At the conclusion of the 21
regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government, the following
documents were signed:
Signing documents following the 21st regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
- Joint
communiqué of the 21
regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese
heads of government
Signed by: Russian Prime Minister Dmitry
Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People's
Republic of China Li Keqiang
- Joint
statement by the Russian and Chinese governments on the results of the first
joint inspection of the Russian-Chinese state border
Signed by: Russian Prime Minister Dmitry
Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People's
Republic of China Li Keqiang
- Joint
statement by the Russian and Chinese heads of government on the development of
strategic cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear power
Signed by: Russian Prime Minister Dmitry
Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People's
Republic of China Li Keqiang
- Protocol
of the 20
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission for the
Preparation of Regular Heads of Government Meetings
Signed by: Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry
Rogozin and Vice Premier of the State
Council of the People's Republic of China Wang Yang
- Protocol
of the 17
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission for
Humanitarian Cooperation
Signed by: Russian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
and Vice Premier of the State Council
of the People's Republic of China
Liu
Yandong
- Protocol
to the Agreement between the Russian Government and the Government of the
People Republic of China on the Creation and Organisational Principles of the
Mechanism of Regular Heads of Government Meetings of 27 June 1997
Signed by: Russian Deputy Prime Minister and
Presidential Plenipotentiary Representative to the Far Eastern Federal District
Yury Trutnev and Vice Premier of the State
Council of the People's Republic of China Wang
Yang
- Protocol
between the Russian Government and the PRC Government on the Results of the
First Joint Inspection of the Russian-Chinese State Border
Signed by: Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor
Morgulov and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi
- Protocol
on Introducing Amendments to an Additional Protocol to the Agreement between
the Russian Government and the Government of the People Republic of China on
the Creation and Organisational Principles of the Mechanism of Regular Heads of
Government Meetings of 27 June 1997
Signed by: Head of Federal Archive Agency
Andrei Artizov and Chinese Foreign Minister
Wang Yi
Memorandum between the Federal Customs Service (Russia) and the Chinese Chief
Customs Directorate of Cooperation in Combating Violations of Customs Procedure
Singed by: Federal Customs Service Head
Vladimir Bulavin and Chinese Foreign Minister
Wang Yi
Memorandum of Understanding Between the Russian Economic Development Ministry,
the Russian Industry and Trade Ministry, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and
the People's Government of Heilongjiang Province on the Fourth Russian-Chinese
EXPO
Signed by: Russian Minister of Industry and
Trade  Denis Manturov, Deputy Minister of
Economic Development Alexei Gruzdev, and Chinese Minister of Commerce Gao
Hucheng
- Protocol
on Introducing Amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding Between the
Russian Economic Development Ministry and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce on
Cooperation in the Small and Medium-Sized Business Sector of 6 November 2007
Signed
by:
Russian Deputy Minister of Economic
Development Alexei Gruzdev and Chinese Minister of Commerce Gao Hucheng
Memorandum of Understanding Between the Russian Ministry of Science and
Education and the Chinese Education Ministry on Cooperation on the Project to
Establish the Moscow Institute of Arts at the Weinan Normal University
Signed by: Russian First Deputy Minister of
Science and Education Natalya Tretyak and Chinese Vice Minister of Education  Hao Ping
- General
Agreement on Cooperation in the Construction of an Industrial Complex in the
Kabardino-Balkarian Republic
Signed by: Kabardino-Balkarian Republic Head
Yury Kokov and China Kunlun
Contracting and Engineering
Corporation CEO Zhou Huatang
Cooperation Agreement between Russian Railways and Yingkou Port Group Co., Ltd
Signed by: Russian Railways President Oleg
Belozyorov and Yingkou Port Group
Co., Ltd President Li Hezhong
Agreement Between Gazprom and China
National Petroleum Corporation on Cooperation in the Mutual Recognition
of Standards and Conformity Assessment Results
Memorandum Between Gazprom and China
National Petroleum Corporation on Studying Opportunities for Cooperation on Gas
Motor Fuel
Signed by: Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and Vice President of China National
Petroleum Corporation Xu Wenrong
Memorandum of Understanding Between Gazprom and China Development Bank on Possible
Financing Projects
Signed by: Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and China Development Bank President Zheng
Zhijie
Agreement on Trade Financing in Yuan between VTB Bank and China Development
Bank for a three-year term
Agreement on Trade Financing in Yuan between VTB Bank and China Development
Bank for a five-year term
Signed by: VTB Bank President and Chairman Andrei
Kostin and China Development Bank
President Zheng Zhijie
Framework Agreement Between Vnesheconombank State Corporation and China
Development Bank
Signed by: Vnesheconombank Chairman Sergei
Gorkov and China Development Bank
President Zheng Zhijie
Agreement Between Rosneft and Beijing Gas Group on Cooperation in the Gas
Sector, including the acquisition of a 20 percent stake in
Verkhnechonskneftegaz
Signed by: Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin and Beijing
Gas Group President Li Yalan
Memorandum of Understanding Between the Glonass Non-commercial Partnership and
China North Industries Corporation on a Project to Develop a Russian-Chinese
Chipset
Signed by: Glonass Executive Director Alexander
Bondarenko and China North Industries Corporation President Wen
Gang
Framework Agreement on the Sale of a Stake in Sibur Holding to the Chinese Silk
Road Fund and China Development Bank International Holdings Ltd.
Signed by: Sibur Holding CEO Leonid Mikhelson,
Silk Road Fund President Wang Yanzhi and China
Development Bank International Holdings Ltd. Director General Meng
Tianshan
News conference with Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang following the 21st
regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government
Excerpts
from the transcript:
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
Dmitry
Medvedev:
We have discussed practically all key issues of
economic, investment and social cooperation between our countries.
I think that
the format of regular meetings of the Russian and Chinese heads of government
has established a good track record.
The balance
of trade looks relatively good despite a certain decline in the past year. This
year, bilateral trade has already exceeded $40 billion.
We will step
up our efforts to gradually reach the target figures outlined several years ago
– $200 billion in trade in the next three to seven years.
China
remains our biggest trade partner.
We agreed to
take a number of practical steps in the bilateral format and as regards our
integration initiatives. I am referring to drawing the Eurasian Economic Union
and the Silk Road Economic Belt closer together.
In the
longer term, there are other areas of integration, including the possibility of
a preferential trade regime.
We have
focused on over 60 large and extremely large investment projects, including the
Power of Siberia pipeline, a LNG plant on Yamal, and preparation for
construction of new nuclear power units and a high-speed network. These mega
projects run into billions and even dozens of billions of US dollars. We also
agreed to create a new format for joint measures to support small and medium
business and make additional efforts to boost cooperation in agriculture.
consider very important to increase the role of national currencies in
bilateral trade. Today the yuan has already become a reserve currency, which
opens up more opportunities for our currency positions and the issue of
instruments that would be denominated in yuans, with preserving transactions in
roubles or in both currencies. The latter’s share may be also growing.
Russian-Chinese
cooperation also includes an enormous number of diverse humanitarian and social
projects where we have made significant progress in the past decade.
Li Keqiang:
Regular meetings
of the heads of government have already been held for 20 years without a single
interruption. This shows that Chinese-Russian relations are dynamically and
consistently moving ahead.
China and Russia are
major neighbouring countries and permanent members of the UN Security Council.
We observe the UN Charter. We have always considered each other’s development
as a unique opportunity for progress and our cooperation.
We must
make a new breakthrough in our cooperation and uncover new potential.
understand that we have prospects for humanitarian cooperation in the Russian
Far East as well.
achieved practical results during this regular meeting.
Dmitry Medvedev
: The Far East is
important for our cooperation for obvious reasons as an area where the
interests of many countries overlap. For us it is extremely important to
develop its infrastructure. Recently we have adopted large programmes for the
development of the Far East and its social
sphere. China is one of the
largest potential investors in different areas of the Far
East.
We adopted a special law on priority
development areas, which give many advantages to investors if they provide
long-term funding to projects on the territory of a particular region.
Chinese investors have already
displayed much interest in the Far East.
Projects for this area cover a wide range, starting with agriculture and ending
with high-tech production facilities. The
total amount of contracted investment in the Far East
exceeds a trillion roubles. Investors from the People’s Republic of China made a
fairly substantial contribution to this sum.
The formation of new trade platforms
both in the West and the East, like the TPP (Trans-Pacific Partnership) or the TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership) marks a
significant departure from the concepts of the World Trade Organisation,
resulting in a certain degree of fragmentation in international trade.
If we agree to further
integrate our economies we should think of how this would affect not only our
economies but also the situation in the world.
In 2015 we decided to link two
concepts – the approach underlying the Eurasian Economic Union and the One
Belt, One Road
concept of the People’s Republic of China. At present we are blending
these ideas at the scale of our economies. It is necessary to display caution
in this respect, especially when it comes to changes in tariff policy, for
instance repealing tariffs in many cases. We do not rule out that this may lead
to the formation of a trade area and preferential regimes. As we make these
decisions, it is necessary to consider all sensitive issues and potential
problems. We will monitor future developments but our countries are fully committed
to following this road.
We believe this idea has a
bright future.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/25196/
Highlight selection