seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/38886/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/38886/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
31 January 2020
11:30
Almaty, Kazakhstan
Under discussion were current issues of the Eurasian Economic Union activities and the further improvement of its legal base.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the meeting
Signing of documents
List of delegation heads
attending the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Group photo of the heads of delegations taking part in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Sergei Roumas;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin;
Prime
Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic Mukhammedkalyi Abylgaziev;
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mikhail Mishustin;
Chair
of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Tigran Sargsyan;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova Ion Chicu.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks
the meeting:
Mikhail Mishustin delivering his remarks at a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
I would like to convey my
greetings to all the participants in this expanded Eurasian Intergovernmental
Council meeting. First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues from
Kazakhstan, and Mr Mamin personally for the marvellous arrangements for our
meeting, and for creating a very productive environment in Almaty. A big thank
you also for your congratulations.
I am attending the Eurasian
Intergovernmental Council meeting for the first time as Prime Minister. Let me
assure you of Russia’s commitment to further strengthening the union and
creating all the required conditions for achieving this goal.
Overall, we have a positive
view of how Eurasian integration has been advancing in all the key areas. First
and foremost, operations within the common market have been improving, and
supra-national regulations are becoming increasingly more effective. Our target
is to ensure that all the five economies grow and that people in the union feel
the benefits of being part of a common space and have equal opportunities.
Let me say a few words about
the results that we have already achieved within the union.
In the first three quarters
of 2019 the union’s aggregate GDP growth rate was equal to 1.4 percent, while
manufacturing and agriculture grew 2.7 percent.
We are witnessing positive
shifts in terms of exports within the union. The share of vehicles, equipment
and means of transport reached 20 percent. The range of goods available on the
union’s internal market is increasing, offering our manufacturers new
opportunities for promoting their wares.
Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
The Pension Agreement for EAEU Working
Population has entered into
force, as has already been mentioned. It guarantees the right to pensions for
citizens from all the five countries regardless of where they worked within the
union. Millions of people are covered by this measure. There was another
landmark decision. Ticket prices for visiting museums or other cultural facilities
will now be the same for all EAEU citizens in all countries of the union. In
fact, it now seems odd that they were treated as foreigners when buying tickets
to visit exhibitions and performances.
What should be our
short-term priorities?
The first goal is to remove
any barriers for accessing the EAEU market and to promote a competitive
business environment. We realise that this would require extensive efforts,
compromises and being able to address challenging issues in a constructive
manner. Belarus as this year’s chair designated this matter as a priority. This
decision has our support.
Visit
Mikhail Mishustin's meeting with first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
Mikhail Mishustin's meeting with President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Moldova Ion Chicu
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime minister of Belarus Sergei Roumas
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
Mikhail Mishustin attends the Digital Almaty: Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin
Ensuring the traceability and labelling of goods
provides a mechanism for improving the transparency of the common market.
Russia proposed expanding this measure to more goods. Let me remind you that we accommodated our colleagues
and postponed the implementation timeframe for marking footwear in Russia until
1 March 2020. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to accelerate procedures for
enacting this initiative and joining this project that has so much importance
for the common market.
The second priority is to promote the digital
transformation of our economies, which opens up game-changing opportunities in
various spheres. This is what the forum that is taking place today in Almaty is
all about. Let me note that we have been quite successful in promoting digital
transformation. The Commission and our partners within the union reviewed about
70 initiatives and launched the first digital projects in manufacturing,
transport and the labour market. We hope that digital technology competence
centres will be created in the near future, as I have already said in my
remarks at the forum. This will enhance the efficiency of our digital
cooperation.
A plan was developed for building an ecosystem of
digital transit corridors. It will reduce the times of passenger and cargo
operations across the EAEU, making this type of transit more in-demand and
competitive. We also need to be more proactive in fine-tuning digital
cooperation on phytosanitary and veterinary affairs by creating a single system
for tracking the movement of goods and cargo subject to quarantine and
veterinary control. We are about to finalise veterinary certification
procedures with our Belarusian colleagues, and launched a similar process with
Kazakhstan regarding goods subject to quarantine. By combining our efforts we
can prevent the circulation of low-quality products and make our controls more
effective.
Third, there must be no delays in carrying out a major
project to establish a Eurasian Network for Industrial Cooperation,
Subcontracting and Technology Transfers. We will decide today on updating the
project’s timeframe and funding provisions. The network is expected to be up
and running next year.
The fourth priority concerns international
cooperation. In October, the EAEU signed free trade agreements with Singapore
and Serbia, the trade liberalisation agreement with Iran came into force, and
the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the EAEU and China took
effect, which of course is critical for ensuring connectivity between the EAEU
and China’s Belt and Road Initiative. We expect to make serious progress in our
negotiations on setting up free trade areas with Egypt and Israel, and will
also begin talks with India on liberalising trade flows. Strengthening
cooperation between the EAEU and the CIS remains a priority. In this context,
we welcome the interest expressed by Uzbekistan in establishing ties with the
EAEU.
My fifth point is that the union’s
development objectives must correlate with the interests of the people. Russia put
special emphasis on healthcare, education, research, social rights, environmental
protection, sports and tourism when drafting the strategic documents for the union.
We have already made proposals to this effect, and hope that you will support
our initiatives.
Colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to wish Mr
Sargsyan a happy birthday, and thank him for his work as Chairman of the
Eurasian Economic Commission Board. I worked with him very closely in my
previous position. I wish you good health and every success in your future
undertakings. I would like to inform you that following this meeting he will
receive the Stolypin Medal, 1
Class. I hope that I will be the one
to present the medal.
Documents signed following the Eurasian
Intergovernmental Council meeting:
Signing documents following the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
· Directive on the
work to eliminate barriers on the internal market of the Eurasian Economic
Union by the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union
· Instruction on drafting
a document outlining strategic areas of the development of Eurasian economic integration
until 2025
· Instruction on organising
events to increase awareness of representatives of government agencies and development
institutions working on matters related to Eurasian economic integration, business
leaders from the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union, and officials
and employees of the Eurasian Economic Commission
· Instruction on implementing
Instruction No. 11 of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council of 25 October 2019
· Instruction on implementing
Instruction No. 17 of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council of 27 November 2018
· Instruction on implementing
Instruction No. 6 of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council of 30 April 2019
· Instruction on
the results of the development of proposals related to detailing the approaches
to regulating duty-free imports of goods for personal use purchased by an individual
as part of international electronic trade
· Instruction on improving
mechanisms for using special protective, anti-dumping and compensatory measures
in the Eurasian Economic Union with regard to international rules and practices,
including the experience of the European Union
· Directive on forming
an ecosystem of digital transit corridors in the Eurasian Economic Union
· Decision on amending
certain decisions of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
· Directive on the
time and venue for holding the next meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental
Council
· Directive on submitting
a candidate for the Eurasian Economic Commission Council to the Supreme
Eurasian Economic Council
· Directive on submitting
a candidate for the Eurasian Economic Commission Board to the Supreme Eurasian Economic
Council.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/38886/
Highlight selection