seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/41002/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/41002/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
25th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
2 December 2020
12:00
The meeting was held via videoconference.
Prime Minister of the Russian
Federation Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of China Li
Keqiang discussed a range of relevant issues on the expansion of Russian-Chinese
relations, comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation. Particular
attention was paid to cooperation in investment, industry, energy, agriculture
and transport, and the need to intensify scientific, educational, cultural and
humanitarian contacts.
From the transcript:
25th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Mikhail Mishustin
: Mr Li Keqiang, my
Chinese friends,
I am delighted to
welcome you to the 25th meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government. We
are videoconferencing this year because of the coronavirus pandemic and I know
that this format does not fully meet our needs. Our bilateral agenda is too packed
and requires person-to-person contact.
At the same time,
even in this difficult situation, our dialogue has not been interrupted. This
confirms the special and unique nature of the all-embracing partnership and
strategic cooperation that links Russia and China.
For a quarter of a
century, this mechanism of regular meetings has ensured the coordination of our
hands-on cooperation in all areas and helped find the best solutions to the
tasks we face. This opportunity to compare notes on key issues in a timely
manner really makes a difference, at all levels. Today we will discuss what has
been done in the past year and outline our plans for the future.
Our relationship
is based on strong traditions of neighbourly interaction and mutual respect
and, of course, a centuries-old common history. Last year, we marked 70 years of
our diplomatic relations. In 2020, we have marked the 75th anniversary of the
Victory. We celebrate together because indeed, during the Second World War, our
peoples fought shoulder to shoulder against a common enemy. Now that the world is
dealing with the threat of the novel coronavirus infection, we are also supporting
each other – we send humanitarian aid, medical specialists, and organise the
production of vaccines and modern medicines. I would like to thank our partners
for their support. I believe that China's success in the fight against
coronavirus deserves the highest praise.
Russia sees China not only as a longtime friend but as
its largest trading partner. The People’s Republic of China accounts for about
17 percent of Russia’s foreign trade. Unfortunately, mutual trade volumes have
decreased somewhat, due to the coronavirus pandemic. I am confident that, given
the pace and dynamics of Russian-Chinese cooperation, we will quickly return to
growth in mutual trade, all the more so as the leaders of our countries,
namely, President of Russia Vladimir Putin and President Xi Jinping, have set
an ambitious goal, that is, expanding mutual trade volumes to $200 billion.
We need to intensify joint efforts to overcome the negative
economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic. For this purpose, we need to
enhance cooperation in all areas, including industry, agriculture and
transport. We have to expand cooperation in the field of digitalisation and to
find new promising forms and areas of cooperation.
It is necessary to expand investment interaction.
Today, we are actively implementing 90 important investment projects, mostly in
the area of energy, industrial production, agriculture and the infrastructure.
The Russian Government is ready to provide all necessary support for their
implementation.
It goes without saying that cooperation between our
countries is not limited to trade and investment. We actively expand cultural and
humanitarian ties, as well as inter-regional interaction. The Years of
Russia-China Inter-Regional Cooperation have been held successfully. They
provided a good impetus for expanding contacts at a local level. We are now
holding the Years of Russia-China Science and Technological and Innovation
Cooperation.
This will help expand cooperation between our
countries in fundamental and applied research, state-of-the-art technologies
and innovations, to broaden the scale of joint research projects and improve
their efficiency. We consider the expansion of humanitarian exchanges to be
particularly important. They strengthen the traditions of friendship,
cooperation and neighbourliness.
I would like to congratulate you and the entire
Chinese nation on the successful landing of the Chang’e 5 probe on the Moon.
This is a landmark achievement of the Chinese space programme. I am convinced
that Russian-Chinese cooperation in the area of space exploration will continue
to develop dynamically.
And one more aspect. Our countries consider it
important to expand cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and China,
including efforts to merge the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian
Economic Union. During such cooperation, we need to start establishing a system
of digital corridors between the five Union member countries and China, to
create favourable conditions for introducing electronic certification in mutual
trade, as regards a number of goods, and to launch dialogue on the foreign
trade policies of the Eurasian Economic Union and China. All this will provide
new opportunities for joint work and will make it possible to conduct mutually
beneficial cooperation. Colleagues, we have a large agenda today. After
introductory remarks by Mr Li Keqiang, we will discuss the most important
matters that define the main areas of Russian-Chinese cooperation, we will hear
reports by the co-chairs of five intergovernmental commissions, which are part
of the mechanism of regular meetings between heads of government.
<…>
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/41002/
Highlight selection