seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/40937/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/40937/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Dmitry Chernyshenko chaired the 24th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime Ministers
24 November 2020
16:30
The commission met via videoconference in preparation for the 25th regular meeting of the heads of government of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China.
The 24th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime Ministers
Dmitry Chernyshenko at the 24th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime Ministers
The 24th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime Ministers
Russia was represented
by Chairman of the Russian side of the Commission and Deputy Prime Minister
Dmitry Chernyshenko, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Russia to
the PRC Andrei Denisov, officials from public authorities in transport,
education, healthcare, tourism, sports, culture, digital development, security,
environmental protection, construction and urban development; as well as state
corporations and financial institutions.
The Chinese delegation,
led by Chairman of the Chinese side of the Commission and Vice-Premier of the
State Council
of the
People's Republic
China Hu
Chunhu,
included officials
from China’s state authorities, financial organisations and staff from the
Embassy of the People's Republic of China to the Russian Federation.
In his opening remarks,
Dmitry Chernyshenko praised the level of interaction between the governments of
Russia and China amid the
pandemic.
“Our countries had
to respond quickly to many challenges this year in order to support our national
economies and healthcare systems and take care of the people,” the Deputy Prime
Minister said. “In these challenging circumstances, both sides lent each other
helping hands, sent humanitarian supplies and medical specialists, and coordinated
actions for evacuating people and ensuring passport control at the border.”
The participants
noted that the necessary limitations on personal meetings this year could not help
but affect bilateral cooperation. Nevertheless, both countries managed to
preserve the positive dynamics of trade and achieve tangible growth in all
areas of interaction.
“The pandemic has challenged
economic and trade cooperation between the countries,” Hu Chunhua said. “However,
during this difficult time, China
and Russia
have made progress across all areas of cooperation. A lot of positive changes
have taken place since the last time our commission met. Today, we will outline
plans for the post-pandemic period and preparations for the 25
meeting
of heads of government.”
The participants
discussed the current state of affairs and prospects for the strategic projects
of Russian-Chinese interaction in nuclear energy, civil aviation, transport
infrastructure projects, and interaction in space exploration and tourism.
Dmitry
Chernyshenko told his Chinese colleagues that Russia started developing a
national project, Tourism and the Hospitality Industry, which will help create
a high-quality and diverse tourism product, make this industry more accessible
in our country and improve the quality of service.
“We are aware that
Chinese tourists visit Russian attractions and resorts and rank number one
among non-CIS countries in terms of the number of inbound tourist trips to Russia,” the
Deputy Prime Minister said. “We encourage you to consider this opportunity and
look forward to seeing Chinese investors, hoteliers and tourism companies participating
in this ambitious project.”
During the
meeting, its participants emphasised the importance of resuming exhibition and
fair activities and discussed the possibility of holding the 7
Russian-Chinese
EXPO in Russia
next year.
The Deputy Prime
Minister encouraged Chinese researchers to participate in the
joint development of groundbreaking areas of scientific and technical cooperation,
including as part of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Belt and Road
Initiative.
Following the
meeting, the parties noted progress in many areas of interaction and adopted several
agreed-upon decisions, which were included in the minutes.
Person:
Dmitry Chernyshenko
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/40937/
Highlight selection