seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/53003/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/53003/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
07:40
Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan
The meeting took place on the sidelines of the SCO heads of government summit.
Mikhail
Mishustin’s address:
Mr Li Qiang, Mr Oyun-Erdene, colleagues,
I am delighted to have this opportunity to take part
in the first trilateral meeting of the heads of government of Russia, China and Mongolia and to discuss the prospects of our practical interaction.
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
Mikhail Mishustin with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang
16 October 2024
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
16 October 2024
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang and Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
President Vladimir Putin pointed out in Samarkand two years ago that
“the Russia-China-Mongolia format is of special importance
as an effective supplement to bilateral cooperation that ensures
high added value for all three countries.”
A large package of basic documents and mechanisms has
been created since our leaders met for the first time in Dushanbe 10 years ago.
We are using it to carry out our multifaceted cooperation.
Its key areas have been set out in a roadmap, which
covers all spheres, including politics, the economy, science and technology,
education and culture.
We have approved a programme for creating a China-Mongolia-Russia economic corridor aimed at strengthening our cooperation
in transport infrastructure, customs administration, industry, investment and environmental protection, as well as border and interregional cooperation, of course.
As our head of state noted, “all these agreements are
being successfully implemented and are yielding us practical dividends.”
The range of issues we need to discuss and coordinate
continues to grow. In addition to contacts between relevant agencies, the first
consultations on strategic security were held in Moscow in September 2023 and a meeting of our foreign ministers was convened in Astana in July 2024.
The importance of effective regional cooperation is
growing now that a new multipolar architecture is taking shape. Our trilateral
format is a relevant example. I am confident that its alignment with the development of the Eurasian Economic Union and the implementation of China’s
Belt and Road Initiative and Mongolia’s Steppe Road Initiative are in our
common interests. It is extremely important to align the implementation of these initiatives with the development of a Greater Eurasian Partnership
proposed by President Putin.
Colleagues,
The strengthening of friendly relations and mutually
beneficial cooperation with the People’s Republic of China and Mongolia, which
are our close neighbours and strategic partners, is a foreign policy priority
for Russia. We are ready to work together to enhance the prosperity of our
nations and the quality of our citizens’ lives. I have no doubt that the agreements we reach today will provide a reliable foundation for this.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/53003/
Highlight selection