seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/1048/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/57387/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Government meeting
24 December 2025
15:35
Government House, Moscow
The agenda includes expanding the list of essential medications, support for civilian shipbuilding, additional measures to combat cyber fraud, and increasing salaries for public sector workers.
Mikhail Mishustin’s opening remarks:
Government meeting
24 December 2025
Government meeting
24 December 2025
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Government meeting
Good afternoon, colleagues.
Before we get to our agenda today, I would like to inform you about an important decision.
It concerns the affordability of medicines on the List
of Vital and Essential Medicines.
We regularly update this list. At the beginning of this year, we added 18 medicines to it. Today, we will expand it by another
eight medicines for anaemia, neutropenia, recurrent pericarditis, tuberculosis,
and various malignant tumours.
Altogether, the list includes over 800 medicines, and most of them are domestically produced medicines, which is extremely important.
In the next five years, the share of domestically
produced vital and essential medicines must be increased to 90 percent. This is
the goal of the relevant national project and the Strategy for Healthcare
Development until 2030, which has recently been approved by a presidential
executive order.
We must continue to do everything in our power so that
our citizens, especially those with life-threatening diagnoses and diseases, have
access to vital medicines.
I will now speak about support for several industries,
including for shipbuilding and shipyards.
The President always highlights this issue. As per his
instructions, we are implementing a programme of low-interest leasing of civilian vessels, which provides for building bulk carriers, container ships
and large cruise and pleasure boats and catamarans, including electric,
hydrofoil and other innovative models.
We will allocate 5 billion roubles this year for extending this programme. Overall, 10 billion roubles have been allocated for building over 70 passenger vessels in the past two years, which will be put
into operation on low-interest conditions under lease programmes.
This will ensure guaranteed contracts which our
shipyards will use to modernise their production facilities and apply advanced
competencies. We will be able to modernise Russia’s passenger and cargo fleets,
which will make river and sea travel, including tourism, more comfortable. This
will also strengthen the regions’ connectivity and help create the foundation
for their economic growth.
We have one more issue on the agenda of the Government
meeting today – on assistance to civilian shipbuilding. Acting at the initiative of the head of our state, we will discuss the allocation of 1.36
billion roubles for this purpose.
These funds will be used to compensate part of the cost of building four fishing vessels at shipyards in the Far Eastern Federal
District. These vessels have been built and will be used to catch crabs under
the investment quota mechanism.
It is not the first year that we will provide this
support. It helps simultaneously fulfil several important tasks, primarily,
modernise our fishing fleet, increase processing and enhance production
efficiency.
Of course, this will
also allow us to develop national shipbuilding, which is necessary for ensuring
our technological sovereignty and creating supply-side economics.
And now, let us review new measures aimed at strengthening the protection of our people and businesses from digital crimes.
The President noted during his Results of the Year
programme that much remained to be done here.
Last week, we held a strategic session where we
discussed, in great detail, an additional package of initiatives that will help
prevent cyber fraud. Today, we will discuss a federal bill listing multiple
systemic measures and decisions, and we will submit it to the State Duma for consideration. The bill regulates the procedure for urgent communication
between mobile phone operators, banks and state agencies using the Anti-Fraud
platform. It expands mechanisms for responding to suspicious telephone calls.
Authorisation procedures are also improving on the Government Services website. Extrajudicial blocking of so-called phishing
websites aiming to deceive users and to steal their personal data will be introduced.
This also concerns online resources spreading malware.
Numerous other preventive measures are
stipulated.
Colleagues, it is necessary to continue creating
effective methods and tools, including organisational, regulatory and technical, for combating fraud.
It is very
important that decent people be shielded from scammers.
Support for public sector employees is another
important issue. During his Results of the Year programme, the President noted
the need to completely fulfil all obligations before the people.
The Government conducts this systemic work; we
allocated 14 billion roubles to the regions throughout 2025 for raising the salaries of public sector employees.
Today, we will discuss the allocation of over 9.5
billion roubles for financing socially significant expenditures, primarily
paying certain categories of employees of federal state agencies. They include
school and vocational teachers, university professors, doctors, cultural
specialists and academics. All of them educate our children and help them
acquire knowledge and master modern professions and skills. They preserve
people’s health, the most precious asset, they conduct research, make
discoveries, generate innovative solutions and products for developing the country’s industrial enterprises and strengthening its technological
sovereignty.
We will continue to adopt decisions to improve
people’s well-being and support their incomes. This is the direct duty of the state.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/57387/
Highlight selection