seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/34600/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/29983/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
1 November 2017
06:00
Beijing, People's Republic of China
Dmitry Medvedev: “Our relations are at an all-time high, the highest in our entire centuries-long history. We have achieved positive results in all areas. In January−August 2017 mutual trade volume grew by 35 percent.”
Dmitry Medvedev’s remarks at the 22
regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Signed documents
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
Excerpts from Dmitry Medvedev’s speech at the 22
regular meeting:
Dmitry Medvedev’s official visit to the People's Republic of China. Welcome ceremony
1 November 2017
Welcome ceremony
1 November 2017
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
1 November 2017
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
1 November 2017
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
1 November 2017
Signing of documents
1 November 2017
Signing of documents
1 November 2017
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
1 November 2017
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
1 November 2017
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Dmitry Medvedev’s official visit to the People's Republic of China. Welcome ceremony
We have built
up a great deal of potential for cooperation development and worked out ways to
discuss the most pressing issues of Russian-Chinese strategic partnership and
interaction.
The 19
National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party was highly publicised in
Russia. A range of strategic decisions has been made that will determine the
development of the People’s Republic of China for the next decades.
Our
relations are at an all-time high, the highest in our entire centuries-long
history. Right now, all formats of intergovernmental consultations are in
place. We have maintained these consultations for 22 years, since 1996.
We have
achieved positive results in all areas. In 2016, mutual trade volume
grew by 4 percent and in January−August 2017 by 35 percent. We can maintain
this positive trend in industry, transport, aircraft design, energy and the high-tech
sectors.
Documents
signed at 22
regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of
government
Signing of documents
Joint communique on the
results of the 22
regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of
government
Minutes of the 18
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission for Cultural Cooperation
Agreement between the
Federal Customs Service of the Russian Federation and the General
Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China on cooperation in
risk management
Protocol between the Federal
Customs Service of the Russian Federation and the General Administration of
Customs of the People’s Republic of China on the exchange of data received via
the inspection and search system used as part of mutual recognition of the
results of customs control of certain kinds of goods, in order to improve
customs control
Protocol between the
Agriculture Ministry of the Russian Federation and the General Administration
of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s Republic of
China on phytosanitary requirements for wheat exported from the Russian
Federation to the People’s Republic of China
Protocol between the
Agriculture Ministry of the Russian Federation and the General Administration
of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s Republic of
China on phytosanitary requirements for sunflower seeds exported from the
Russian Federation to the People’s Republic of China
Protocol between the
Agriculture Ministry of the Russian Federation and the General Administration
of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s Republic of
China on phytosanitary requirements for buckwheat exported from the Russian
Federation to the People’s Republic of China
Protocol between the
Agriculture Ministry of the Russian Federation and the General Administration
of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s Republic of
China on phytosanitary requirements for flax seed exported from the Russian
Federation to the People’s Republic of China
Protocol between the
Agriculture Ministry of the Russian Federation and the General Administration
of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s Republic of
China on phytosanitary requirements for oat exported from the Russian
Federation to the People’s Republic of China
Agreement on establishing
sister relationship between the Republic of Karelia (Russian Federation) and
Fujian Province (People’s Republic of China)
Agreement on trade,
economic, research, technical, social and cultural cooperation between the
Government of the Republic of Karelia (Russian Federation) and the People’s
Administration of Fujian Province (People’s Republic of China)
Cooperation development
programme in space exploration between Roscosmos state corporation on space
activities (Russian Federation) and the China National Space Administration
(People’s Republic of China) for 2018−2022
Memorandum of understanding
on wide cooperation between NOVATEK and the China Development Bank
Framework agreement between
the Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs (Vnesheconombank) and the
Export-Import Bank of China
Agreement on strategic
cooperation between NOVATEK and the China National Petroleum Corporation
Minutes of the 4
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission for Investment
Cooperation
Minutes of the 14
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission for Energy
Cooperation
Minutes of the 21
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission for Preparing Regular Meetings of Heads
of Government
Minutes of the 1
meeting of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission for Cooperation and
the Development of the Russian Far East and Baikal Region and the Northeast of
the People’s Republic of China
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang following the 22nd regular
meeting of the prime ministers of Russia and China
Excerpts from the transcript:
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
Li Keqiang:
The
regular meeting of Chinese and Russian heads of government
focuses on expanding practical cooperation. We have reached our goals; the
meeting went quite well. We also attended a ceremony where bilateral documents
were signed.
Chinese-Russian relations of
comprehensive strategic partnership continue to develop at a high level; contacts
at the high and top levels have intensified and mutual political trust in
international and regional affairs as well as strategic cooperation are being
developed.
We also praise the current level of trade ties between
the two countries, especially since the beginning of this year. Mutual trade is
growing fast. We have agreed on the further improvement and expansion of
bilateral trade as well as  the
implementation of planned joint projects so as to be able to see results as
soon as possible.
It is important for us to bring the best out of
cooperation in traditional areas, as well as to develop and agree on new large
joint projects plus expand new cooperation areas.
China is going to host an imports fair next year.
Russian products will find their Chinese consumers and will get a bigger share
on the Chinese market.
We also discussed cooperation on the eastern route of
the Yamal LNG gas pipeline, the second section of the China-Russia oil pipeline
and the implementation of other major projects. It is important to find new
forms of energy cooperation based on these projects. In particular, cooperation
and integrated interaction from upstream to downstream.
It is important to strengthen cooperation in
innovations, the field of high-tech , space, aviation and aircraft design. We
still have a big potential for that.
The first joint university on the basis of the
Polytechnic University and Lomonosov Moscow State University opened this year.
We hope that it will not just be an institution of higher learning important
for both countries, but will also gain a reputation abroad.
Today the Prime Minister and I will close the years of
the Russian and Chinese media and finalise the results of the two years. We are
working on the possibility to hold other cross-years.
China and Russia are great countries that are each
other’s largest neighbours with wide development opportunities. Together with
the Russian party, we are ready to implement agreements that our leaders reach,
assist cooperation as part of various systems, implement the existing
cooperation results based on mutual benefit and respect, mutual development,
plus develop bilateral relations together with multidimensional cooperation for
the sake of a new type of international relations.
Dmitry Medvedev
: I have congratulated Premier
of the State Council of China Li Keqiang, all our Chinese colleagues and the
Chinese people on the success of the 19th Congress of the Communist Party of
China. The Congress’ decisions have determined the country’s future and will
boost comprehensive partnership and forward-looking cooperation with Russia, as
well as our interaction within a wide range of formats, including that of multilateral
nature.
The mechanism of interaction between our governments is working very well. It
is a good mechanism. We have five very effective field-specific commissions. Both
the Russian and the Chinese governments are contributing to the development of
projects in various spheres of our cooperation.
Over the past year, we have signed several intergovernmental,
interdepartmental and interregional documents on cooperation in various
spheres, including agriculture, customs, space exploration and interregional cooperation.
Of course, Russian and Chinese companies and financial institutions maintain
large-scale multifaceted cooperation.
News conference by Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang
Despite the global economic downturn, Russian-Chinese cooperation has
rebounded. Over the past few years, our trade has not decreased but has grown,
including by over 30 percent in the first eight months of this year. We hope
our trade will continue to grow in keeping with the goals that have been
formulated some time ago, and that it will ultimately reach the target figure.
As you remember, the target figure is $100 billion, but it is not the limit at
all.
We are implementing huge projects, including cross-border ones. One such
breakthrough project is the Eurasian Transport Corridor to link China, Russia
and the EU countries.
We are working to implement ambitious transport project, such as the
creation of a wide-body long-distance civilian plane, which has been given a
name already. We are working on a heavy civilian helicopter and space
exploration: we have signed a programme for our work on these projects.
We have approved a package of 73 priority
investment projects, 17 of which are being implemented with some $15 billion of
attracted investment. We have agreed to pay more attention to the sphere of
innovations and to consider the possibility of creating a special fund to
finance innovative research.
The first stage of the Yamal LNG plant will come on stream in the near
future. The first batch of gas via the eastern route of the Power of Siberia
pipeline will be delivered in late 2019. We will continue coordinating gas
deliveries via the western route and will boost these talks.
It is very important to continue our cooperation in other science-intensive
spheres such as nuclear generation.
The number of people studying Russian and Chinese is increasing with every
passing year. The scope of our cultural and education projects is increasing,
along with the number of students. A joint Russian-Chinese University based on
Moscow State University and Beijing University of Technology has opened at
Shenzhen.
We have held regular cross years starting in 2007. The latest examples are
the media cross years in 2016 and 2017.
Question:
We know that the US dollar continues to hold leading positions in the
international settlement system, and the payment systems continue to be
dominated by transnational companies such as Visa and MasterCard. Some experts
believe that this can disturb the balance in the international financial system
and lead to economic inequality. What should
be done
in this
situation?
Dmitry Medvedev:
The
world needs a balanced system of financial relations based on various reserve
currencies and settlement systems. No one currency must
dominate the market, because this makes all of us dependent on the economic
situation in the country that issues this reserve currency, even when we are
talking about a strong economy such as the United States. Even the US economy
encounters periodic problems, which causes turbulence in the entire financial
world. Therefore, the more balanced the international financial system, the
better for everyone.
The yuan, the national currency of China that represents one of the world’s
largest economies, is playing an increasingly big role. We are discussing the
possibility of using our national currencies, the rouble and the yuan, for
mutual settlements and also using such tools as swaps. We are also analysing
the possibilities of national payment systems, including China’s UnionPay. Russia
is developing a national payment system based on the Mir card. We are
discussing the possibility of connecting the Mir card to Chinese payment
systems based on co-badged cards, that is, cards that include two payment
brands and so can be used in settlement transactions in Russia and other
countries. These cards have a good future in that they will help us evade the
problems that are sometimes created by the use of American payment systems such
as Visa or MasterCard. The more financial tools we have in the world the more
stable the international financial system.
Question:
What do you think will be the future of relations between our countries?
And another question: at the
previous ministerial meeting you suggested focusing on key aspects such as
cooperation between small-sized businesses and cooperation on the development
of the Russian Far East. How is it going?
Li Keqiang:
The 19
National Congress of the Communist Party of China
concluded successfully last week. The congress was quite open; we invited many
foreign correspondents, including Russian ones who provided a broad coverage of
the event.
During the talks we mentioned
that the Russian side considers the 19
Congress, as well as
important decisions related to next year’s development, an opportunity for the
development of Russia. We always consider each other’s development as the
opportunity for our own development, because we are strategic partners, we have
trust in each other and share common interests for the sake of mutually
beneficial cooperation.
No doubt we have even bigger
opportunities for cooperation ahead. We need a balance to preserve peace and
stability in the world. Balance is also important for the improvement of
security. And again, we need to find a new balancing point for the development
of Russian-Chinese relations.
Therefore, last year in St
Petersburg Mr Medvedev and I expressed hope and intent to strengthen
cooperation related to small and medium-sized businesses, as well as the
development of the Russian Far East.
It is important to find new fields
of cooperation because we have a very sound foundation for the traditional
cooperation areas (such as energy, aircraft design and space exploration) and
they are developing fast.
What I am talking about is
that it is important to use the capacities and advantages of large joint
projects. No less important is to show the advantages and flexibility of
cooperation between small and medium-sized businesses to achieve mutually
complementing cooperation, form new growth points as well as achieve the goals
and results that will exceed our expectations.
The Far East is a very vast
space and has a huge potential for the future development of Russia. We believe
that China’s biggest advantage is the domestic demand and the country’s western
and middle regions have even bigger development potential. If we manage to
boost cooperation in the Russian Far East, we will be able to form as well as expand
the new space for the further development of cooperation.
During the talks we reached
new agreements on cooperation in the Russian Far East. We are going to increase
China’s investments in order to develop the region and we are ready to increase
imports of Russian energy.
China supports its tourists
who want to go to Russia and its Far East. We will not allow illegal fishing;
Russia and China will improve cooperation in this area.
We have a very solid base for
the development of our countries, for cooperation. We are looking for new
growth points and new cooperation areas in the interests of our people, peace
and stability in the world.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/29983/
Highlight selection