seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/34306/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/all/34306/
title: All materials
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
The SCO Heads of Government Council Meeting
12 October 2018
09:40
Dushanbe, Tajikistan
Dmitry Medvedev: “This organisation is the best platform for aligning our national development strategies and trans-border projects. Our intention is to develop our cooperation across all areas. In 2017, Russia’s trade with the SCO member states increased to $120 billion. The positive trend has continued this year.”
Dmitry
Medvedev’s remarks at the SCO Heads of Government Council Meeting
Documents
signed following the meeting
The heads of delegations of the SCO Member States, the heads of delegations of SCO observer states, and guests representing international organisations
12 October 2018
The SCO Heads of Government Council restricted-format meeting
12 October 2018
SCO Heads of Government Council expanded-format meeting
12 October 2018
Dmitry Medvedev speaks at the SCO Heads of Government Council expanded-format meeting
12 October 2018
Meeting between Heads of Delegations of the SCO Member States and President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
12 October 2018
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
The heads of delegations of the SCO Member States, the heads of delegations of SCO observer states, and guests representing international organisations
Heads of
delegations of SCO member states:
Foreign
Minister of India Sushma Swaraj;
Prime
Minister of Kazakhstan Bakhytzhan Sagintayev;
Prime
Minister of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang;
Prime
Minister of Kyrgyzstan Mukhammedkalyi Abylgaziev;
Foreign
Minister of Pakistan Shah Mahmood Qureshi;
Prime
Minister of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev;
Prime
Minister of Tajikistan Kokhir Rasulzoda;
Prime
Minister of Uzbekistan Abdulla Aripov.
Dmitry
Medvedev’s remarks at the  SCO Heads of
Government Council Meeting
Retrospective
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 1 Desember 2017
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 3 November 2016
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 15 December 2015
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, 15 December 2014
Meeting of the Council of SCO Heads of Government, 29 November 2013
Meeting of the Council of SCO Heads of Government, 5 December 2012
Rasulzoda,
Ladies and
gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank our
colleagues from Tajikistan for their hospitality and the comfortable working
conditions.
We have
completed the work in a restricted format. We exchanged opinions on what is necessary
to do to update the agenda of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We talked
about trade, investment, the digital agenda, high technology, transport,
industrial production and energy. It is important to use all our resources to
achieve the best results.
The external environment remains complicated and can hardly be called
comfortable. The strategic stability system has undergone major tests. To
retain their dominant positions, individual states are resorting to unfair
competition. Protectionist measures and illegal unilateral sanctions are being
introduced. Occasionally, things go as far as political blackmail. The bulk of
the attacks are directed against Russia
and China as key members of
the Shanghai organisation, as well as our
long-term partner Iran.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang
Economic risks are further aggravated by mounting threats to security.
Terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking are serious challenges that are
of concern for all of our countries. As is known, Afghanistan with its ongoing
hostilities and terrorist acts is faced with the most acute problems. We
support efforts that lead to national reconciliation and economic recovery in
that country.
Despite the known restrictions, the Russian
economy is developing steadily and is largely in the black – that’s true of all
key macroeconomic indicators - which makes us optimistic about our future.
Our organisation is the best available platform for merging our national
development strategies and cross-border projects. Harmonising integration
within the Eurasian Economic Union and the
Belt and Road project is a case in point. An agreement on trade and economic
cooperation between the Eurasian Union and China was signed in May. Several
agreements between Russia
and China
have been concluded.
SCO Heads of Government Council expanded-format meeting
We are determined to strengthen our cooperation across the board. As a
matter of fact, this is what is actually happening. In 2017, Russia's trade
with the countries members of this organisation grew to $120 billion. The
positive trend continues this year. Overall, this is a good result.
We need to make important decisions in order to fund projects.
Separately, someone here noted the need to switch to mutual settlements in
national currencies (we support this idea) and to reduce external risks. We
need to act carefully and deliberately about this matter, though.
Our countries have common borders and vast territories. Unnecessary travel
time involves unnecessary costs and lost business revenue. In order to expand
our economic cooperation, we need full-fledged transport and logistics
projects. We see eye to eye on this issue. Russia is willing to participate in
these projects. We allocate significant amounts of funds for upgrading and
expanding the main transport route infrastructure, including the West-East and
North-South transport corridors. I’m confident that our common logistics
arrangements will provide us with significant competitive advantages.
Of course, we welcome the decision made by Belarus, an observer country, to
join the Agreement on Creating Favourable Conditions for
Road Transport.
An inter-departmental programme on food safety will be
signed following our meeting. It would be beneficial to involve observers and
dialogue partners in it. Tens of millions of people that live in our countries
should be provided with quality food products, and protected against epidemics
as well as environmental disasters. In this respect we support what my colleague Lǐ
Keqíang said on this subject.
The flow of people crossing the state borders is continuously growing.
Of course we are interested in preserving this trend. I am sure that the
implementation of the programme on developing tourism and the plan of joint
actions for the 2019-2020 period will bring our states even closer.
Our agreements begin to work when they are more down-to-earth – contacts
between entrepreneurs, cross-border areas and specific companies. Both the Business
Council and the Interbank Association are called upon to facilitate this. We
hope that the SCO countries will take an active part in the annual Forum on
Small Business that will be held in Ufa
in a week. This is the forum of the SCO and BRICS member countries.
As you know Russia
proposed the establishment of a forum of governors of the SCO countries. We are
grateful to our colleagues for supporting this initiative. We are looking forward
to seeing representatives from the SCO states at the first meeting that will
take place in this country – in Chelyabinsk
in December. Our colleagues from Uzbekistan suggested elaborating a
programme for developing inter-regional cooperation. These programmes
supplement each other fairly well.
We see eye to eye when it comes to the development of humanitarian cooperation.
Having its own spirit the SCO unites countries with rich histories and culture
together with unique traditions. And we must do everything we can to get to
know each other better.
The SCO University
that unites almost eighty universities is one of the most successful
humanitarian projects. It has been functioning for 10 years now. Such projects should
be supported in every way. We proceed from the premise that interest in this
cooperation will be growing and the number of participants will be on the rise.
In conclusion I would like to thank once again our colleagues from Tajikistan for
the excellent organisation of our work. The presidency is being transferred to Uzbekistan so
we wish our colleagues every success and are always willing to give them a
helping hand.
Documents signed following
the meeting of the
SCO
Heads of Government Council:
Decisions by the SCO Heads of Government Council (prime ministers) on
the following matters:
The Report of the SCO
Secretariat on Implementing the Programme of Multilateral Trade and
Economic Cooperation of the SCO Member States
The SCO Financial
Report on the Execution of the 2017 SCO Budget
The SCO 2019 budget
Voluntary assistance
to support the activities of permanent SCO bodies
Translation support for
the permanent SCO bodies
Amending the Guidelines
for Remuneration, Guarantees and Compensation for SCO Permanent Body
Officials
Revising the Programme
for Multilateral Trade and Economic Cooperation of the SCO Member States
Drafting the Programme
for Expanding Region-to-Region Cooperation between the SCO Member States
The Plan of Practical
Measures (road map) regarding cooperation between research institutions of
the SCO member states in 2019-2020
Implementing the
Concept of SCO
Member State
Cooperation in Environmental Protection
Joint communiqué following the 17
meeting of the SCO Heads
of Government Council (prime ministers)
The SCO Cooperation Programme for Food Security
The memorandum between the authorised departments of the SCO Member
States on technical cooperation in the joint prevention and control of trans-border
epizootic diseases.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/all/34306/
Highlight selection