seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/45776/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/45776/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Expanded meeting of Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
21 June 2022
12:00
Mikhail Mishustin: “The pressure the collective West is putting on the individual member states of the union is becoming stronger and affects all of them. Our economies are inextricably linked; therefore, we need to respond to the unfriendly steps together. The main goal is to minimise the impact of sanctions on the people and strengthen macroeconomic stability.”
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at a meeting
Signed documents
Delegation heads
taking part in an expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Prime Minister of the Republic
of Armenia Nikol
Pashinyan;
Heads of delegations participating in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
21 June 2022
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
21 June 2022
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
21 June 2022
Mikhail Mishustin at the expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
21 June 2022
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Heads of delegations participating in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Prime Minister of the Republic
of Belarus Roman
Golovchenko;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alikhan Smailov;
Prime Minister of
the Kyrgyz Republic
– Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office of the Kyrgyz Republic
Akylbek Japarov;
Prime Minister of
the Russian Federation
Mikhail Mishustin;
Prime Minister of
the Republic of Cuba Manuel Marrero Cruz (via video
link-up);
Deputy Prime
Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan – Minister of Economic Development and
Poverty Reduction of the Republic
of Uzbekistan Jamshid
Kuchkarov;
Chairman of the
Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Mikhail Myasnikovich.
Mikhail Mishustin at the expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental
Council:
Mr Japarov,
Mr Golovchenko,
Colleagues,
First of all, I
would also like to warmly thank our Belarusian colleagues for organising our
meeting.
Today, we are
meeting on the eve of a significant date. The Great Patriotic War, which began
81 years ago, on 22 June 1941, claimed tens of millions of lives. Russia marks
this date as the Day of Memory and Sorrow. Our fraternal nations fought
heroically at the front and worked selflessly at home. It is the duty of
current and future generations to preserve the memory of the Great Patriotic
War and to prevent the rewriting of the history of our Victory.
And now, let us discuss
the topics of today’s meeting.
Quite recently,
in May, we marked the eighth anniversary of signing the Treaty on the Eurasian
Economic Union. This is a short period of time for an international
organisation. The EAEU quickly proved its effectiveness and relevance, and it also
confirmed its ability to promptly respond to various challenges and risks.
As President of
the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin noted at the St Petersburg International
Economic Forum, intra-EAEU trade continues to expand, and it is growing more
quickly than trade with other states.
We also have good results in other key areas of
cooperation including industry, finance and agriculture. Most importantly, the
citizens of our countries feel the benefits of integration in their daily
lives. The Russian President noted this in his speech at the recent Supreme
Eurasian Economic Council meeting.
It is important to ensure the further progressive
development of Eurasian integration and to overcome together the results of
instability in the international economic system during this new, difficult
geopolitical reality.
The collective West’s pressure on the individual
states of the five countries is growing. This affects all members of the union.
Our economies are closely connected, so we can only effectively respond to
unfriendly steps together.
The main goal is to minimise the impact of the
sanctions on citizens and strengthen macroeconomic stability.
Necessary decisions are made as part of the
implementation of the list of measures to improve the sustainability of our
economies. New initiatives are being discussed in the special high-level
working group.
I will elaborate on the most significant areas that
should be given special attention.
First is the work on creating conditions for
businesses to operate normally in the current situation. To do this, the rules
for unified customs, customs-tariff, non-tariff and technical regulation are
being adjusted. We suggest expediting the transition to our own international
financial and settlement mechanisms, and expanding the practice of using
national currencies in foreign trade transactions with those countries that
have proven to be reliable partners.
It is necessary to step up cooperation in import
substitution as well, I mean priority high-tech industries. By the way, we saw
an excellent example of this yesterday when we visited Amkodor with Roman
[Golovchenko] and the Prime Minister of Uzbekistan.
We must reduce our dependence on foreign imports and
launch our own joint innovation projects to develop and produce the products we
need.
We will need to use the competitive advantages of all
union members, cooperation in ICT, aerospace manufacturing and pharmaceuticals.
We also suggest intensifying cooperation on the digital
agenda. The introduction of advanced technologies reduces many types of cost,
especially in planning, in decision-making, and when putting plans into
practice. The development of a digital marking system in the EAEU is a
promising area in this regard. This has already proven effective. We will
continue to improve the regulatory legal framework for internal and external
trade in the union, and coordinate our steps to combat the illegal trafficking
of industrial products.
Food security is another important subject.
The EAEU countries are completely self-sufficient in
terms of staple foods and agricultural products. At the same time, we will
continue to protect the interests of our producers, incentivise import
substitution and create common markets in the agro-industrial sector.
The sanctions policies of unfriendly countries have
disrupted logistics and trade chains all over the world. This creates new tasks
for us.
Today, it is important to expedite the development of
the infrastructure that will become part of the East-West and North-South
international transport corridors. As our colleagues have noted, this also
includes efforts to align this project with China’s Belt and Road Initiative.
We need this to connect Europe and Asia
via the shortest route and to build the Greater Eurasian Partnership, as
proposed by President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
The free movement of goods within the union, the
elimination of internal customs borders, transport integration, and diverse
infrastructure will be key advantages in the global competition for freight
transiting.
I would like to mention the creation of a competitive
environment in cross-border markets separately. Today, we are reviewing the
annual report by the Eurasian Economic Commission on this subject.
The last few years have shown that healthy competition
has a major impact on economic stability in any circumstance. It is necessary
to continue monitoring compliance with common regulations in this respect, to
plan new approaches to evaluating the state of competition in digital markets
and the procedure for determining their cross-border status to create
favourable conditions for establishing equitable mobile communications rates
within the international roaming network.
Compliance with market economies and fair competition
principles are fundamental standards in the Eurasian Economic Union, together
with efforts to promote the four freedoms of movement: goods, services, capital
and human resources.
And one more thing: we believe that we should not
relax the pace of the union’s work on the climate agenda. The EAEU has the
potential for considerable interaction here. We need to draft and approve a
common policy on this track more quickly.
We urge our partners to expand their cooperation on
climate issues, including within the framework of the ad hoc high-level working
group.
Dear colleagues,
There is growing interest in cooperation with the EAEU
in the world. We propose strengthening our contacts with our friends and
partners, primarily with members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. We
need to build constructive cooperation with the countries of the Asia-Pacific Region,
Latin America and Africa, implement the entire range of agreements with China, and expedite talks to expand trade with Egypt, India
and Iran.
Our alliance is aimed at a productive dialogue with
leading regional associations including the SCO and ASEAN. All this will
provide significant advantages for promoting Eurasian goods in foreign markets
and, of course, strengthening the role of the EAEU in the international arena.
Documents
signed following the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
– Directive “On the main approaches to the
implementation of measures to regulate the export of certain types of goods by
the EAEU member states”;
– Instruction “On the progress of the draft agreement
on alcohol market regulation within the Eurasian Economic Union”;
– Instruction “On the progress of the draft protocol
on amendments to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union dated 29 May 2014
regarding the procedure for collecting indirect taxes on the online sales of
goods to individuals”;
– Decision “On Amending Clause 2 of Decision No. 2 of
the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council dated 10 April 2020”;
– Instruction “On the creation and development of
transport infrastructure in the Eurasian Economic Union member states in the
East-West and North-South corridors, including as part of the alignment with
China’s Belt and Road Initiative”;
– Directive "On the annual report of the Eurasian
Economic Commission on monitoring the assessment of the regulatory impact of
the Eurasian Economic Commission’s draft decisions in 2021";
– Directive “on the commission for cooperation and
import substitution in priority and high-tech industries within the Eurasian
Economic Union”;
– Directive “On the application of the goods
accounting system provided for in Paragraph 10 of Article 3 of the Protocol on
Certain Issues Concerning the Import and Circulation of Goods in the Eurasian
Economic Union Customs Territory dated 16 October 2015”;
– Directive “On the Eurasian Economic Union member
states’ programme on joint actions to protect consumer rights”;
– Directive “On the 2021 annual report of the Eurasian
Economic Commission on the state of competition in cross-border markets and
measures taken to curb violations of the general rules of competition”;
– Instruction “On the implementation by the Eurasian Economic Union member
states of the domestic procedures necessary for international treaties to enter
into force, as well as procedures for domestic approval of international draft
treaties concluded within the Eurasian Economic Union”;
– Directive “On submitting to the Supreme Eurasian
Economic Council a candidate for a member of the Board of the Eurasian Economic
Commission”;
– Directive “On submitting to the Supreme Eurasian
Economic Council a candidate for a member of the Board of the Eurasian Economic
Commission”;
– Directive “On submitting to the Supreme Eurasian
Economic Council a candidate for a member of the Council of the Eurasian
Economic Commission”;
– Directive “On establishing the time and place of the
Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting.”
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/45776/
Highlight selection