seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/22590/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/22590/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
13 April 2016
12:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
Dmitry Medvedev: “Our Union has grown into a modern and efficient integration project that yields tangible results when the economy is on the rise, as well as at times of economic uncertainty. A single market with 180 million consumers is by definition more resilient and has bigger reserves than its constituent economies separately”.
Restricted-attendance meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
13 April 2016
With Prime Minister of Belarus Andrei Kobyakov
13 April 2016
With Prime Minister of Armenia Hovik Abrahamyan
13 April 2016
With Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov
13 April 2016
With Deputy Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan Oleg Pankratov
13 April 2016
Group photo of the delegation heads taking part in the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council meeting
13 April 2016
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
13 April 2016
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
13 April 2016
Signing documents adopted during the meeting
13 April 2016
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Restricted-attendance meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Delegation heads
attending the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Prime Minister of Armenia Hovik
Abrahamyan
Prime Minister of Belarus
Andrei Kobyakov
Prime Minister of
Kazakhstan Karim Massimov
Prime Minister of Russia
Dmitry Medvedev
Deputy Prime Minister of
Kyrgyzstan Oleg Pankratov
Chairman of the Board of
the Eurasian Economic Commission Tigran Sargsyan
Excerpts from Dmitry Medvedev’s remarks:
Our Union has grown into a modern and efficient
integration project that operates on the territory of its member states and
yields tangible results when the economy is on the rise, as well as at times of
economic uncertainty.
The renewed Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission
has been working since February 2016, chaired by Tigran Sargsyan.
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, 8 September 2015
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, 29 May 2015
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, 6 February 2015
Statistics are there to show that the Union helps
stabilise the economies of its five member states. A single market with 180
million consumers is by definition more resilient and has bigger reserves than
its constituent economies separately.
In 2016, Kazakhstan chairs the Union and its
structures. Russia supports the priorities highlighted by Kazakhstan. It is
important to focus on improving the contractual and legal framework of Eurasian
integration, phasing out exemptions from the four freedoms (free movement of
goods, services, capital and workers), and moving on to establish single
markets in the key sectors of the economy. In this context, it is essential to
draft and adopt a new Union customs code, an agreement on requirements
regarding activities on the financial market and a number of other documents.
As for the customs code, we need a document that would
be directly applicable, unifying customs clearing procedures on the Union’s
external border, making procedures more transparent and predictable. In this
context, it is very important to align information systems used by customs
services, and accelerate the introduction of product labelling.
The single market for pharmaceutical and medical
products deserves special attention. We need to settle the existing
contradictions and adopt all documents envisaged in the agreements on single
principles and rules governing pharmaceutical and medical products. This market
should become fully operational this year.
Expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
China is one of the largest trade and investment
partners for EAEU member states. We are looking forward to stepping up
cooperation along these lines with a view of creating an even more favourable
environment for all those who operate on the Eurasian space, as well as
aligning the Eurasian Economic Union project with China’s Silk Road Economic
Belt initiative. We should also be mindful of the prospects for cooperation
between EAEU and the People’s Republic of China.
Another item on the agenda is prospects for
establishing ties between the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union.
We have been receiving signals lately that European partners are increasingly
interested in working with us. They were not ready to move in this direction
until recently, but now it seems that there are some encouraging signs. We are
ready to move in this direction, but only on equal, mutually beneficial terms
and taking into account each other’s interests.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/22590/
Highlight selection