seed_url: http://special.government.ru/en/news/56714/
final_url: http://special.government.ru/en/news/56714/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Alexei Overchuk’s address to the summit of APEC economies
31 October 2025
10:20
Gyeongju, Republic of Korea
Alexei Overchuk’s address to the summit of APEC economies
31 October 2025
Alexei Overchuk’s address to the summit of APEC economies
31 October 2025
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Alexei Overchuk’s address to the summit of APEC economies
Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Overchuk, who led the Russian delegation at the APEC forum, addressed the APEC summit.
Excerpts
from the transcript:
Mr Chair, heads of state and government, colleagues.
We would like to express our gratitude for a hospitable welcome accorded to us by the Republic of Korea.
The current situation in the global and regional
economies calls for a collective response to global challenges. We are
witnessing the disruption of global links and production chains, and the destruction of the fundamentals of the multilateral trade system in the form of the WTO, including the most favoured nation regime. Unilateral sanctions and tariffs are threatening the stability of regional markets, jobs and incomes. Of course, new supply chains are being created, new investment flows are
initiated, and business is adapting to new conditions. But this entails
material costs.
We must not allow these destructive trends to undermine the positions of this region as a global economic driver. We should
revive the spirit of multilateralism and solidarity as a counterbalance to the logic of confrontation.
We should learn to better understand each other. This
also concerns Ukraine. We cannot accept the fact that people are being killed
because they want to speak Russian. We cannot accept the fact that people are
being killed because they want their school-age children to have an opportunity
to study in the Russian language. We cannot accept the fact that people are
being killed because they want to go to the Russian Orthodox Church. We cannot
accept the fact that security of some is ensured at the expense of others. We
believe that the current conflict can be settled and a durable peace can be
established if the root causes of that conflict are eliminated, and we are
conducting diplomatic negotiations on this topic.
On the other hand, we believe that if our countries
work together, this will create more opportunities than risks. Russia is making
its contribution to regional dynamics. Our economy has demonstrated resistance
to modern challenges and is developing. We are strengthening the national
production base. We are advocating the open Greater Eurasian Partnership
initiative, which is consonant with the APEC’s vision. It is based on the idea
of integrating integrations, enhancing connectivity, harmonising regulatory
systems, lifting barriers and creating better competitive conditions for our
producers.
We are trying to improve business climate in Greater
Eurasia. We are considering a network of free trade agreements as an instrument, and we are using it together with our partners in the Eurasian
Economic Union.
APEC, which has been created as a platform for boosting
trade and investment, should focus on the comprehensive connectivity of institutions, regulatory functions, and human contacts.
We are working in this context to improve our Far
Eastern rail infrastructure and Pacific ports. We are also building up
possibilities for using the Northern Sea Route, the shortest route between this
region and Europe.
We are improving the connectivity of the Eurasian
space on the East-West track, where we are working together to align Eurasian
integration with China’s Belt and Road Initiative, as well as on the North-South track.
Colleagues,
The transformation of the global economy is connected
to transitioning to a new technological paradigm. Artificial intelligence is
playing a key role here. It is imperative to use this instrument for enhancing
the well-being of the people and to prevent it from being used to create new
threats and digital divides. Russia is relying on the relevant UN mechanisms to ensure a more efficient use of the AI potential and to minimise risks. APEC has
an important role to play as a platform for exchanging best practices and implementing projects.
AI development has significantly increased energy
demand. All types of energy resources, including natural gas and nuclear
energy, should be used for this purpose on the principles of technological
neutrality.
We welcome the APEC’s resumption of realistic energy
development scenarios this year, with emphasis on energy security and affordable energy.
We support the idea of creating non-discriminatory trade
conditions in the APEC region. This year, the forum’s member countries have
clearly spoken for the uninterrupted delivery of vital goods and services, in particular, in agriculture and healthcare.
Our business community is making a substantial
contribution to the development of our ties. The experience of our joint
cooperation within APEC allows us to shape a clear view of the future and to adapt to it.
We believe that the success of these efforts is
assured by our mood for constructive cooperation, for adopting decisions based
on consensus, and our focus on the substantive topics of the forum.
In conclusion, I would like to once again express our
gratitude to the Republic of Korea for the brilliant organisation of the summit.
Thank you.
Person:
Alexei Overchuk
Government of the Russian Federation
http://special.government.ru/en/news/56714/
Highlight selection