seed_url: http://www.en.kremlin.ru/events/president/transcripts/60390
final_url: http://www.en.kremlin.ru/events/president/transcripts/60390
title: Meeting with Myanmar’s State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi
date: 2019-04-26
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Events
Meeting with Myanmar’s State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi
Vladimir
Putin met with State Counsellor of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Aung
San Suu Kyi on the sidelines of the second
Belt
and Road
Forum for International Cooperation.
April 26, 2019
14:40
Beijing
President of Russia Vladimir Putin:
Madam State Counsellor, colleagues. I am very
pleased to see you, and I am happy to have this opportunity to discuss things
at the Beijing summit.
Myanmar is Russia’s long-time and reliable partner in Southeast Asia. Last year, we marked the 70th anniversary
of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. We are
committed to the further development of political dialogue and the continuation
of inter-parliamentary exchanges. Our ministries of foreign affairs also have
well-established contacts.
Although quite modest in absolute
terms, our mutual trade is growing rapidly, having gained more than 50 percent last
year.
There are regional issues, of course, which need to be focused on.
I am glad to have the opportunity to meet with you and talk about all these issues.
State Counsellor of Myanmar Aung San Suu Kyi:
We are also very
glad to have this opportunity to meet. We tried to meet with you in Singapore,
but it was not possible before. Of course, we have been friends with Russia for a long time, and we value this friendship and we also appreciate the support that
you have given us on the international arena. Your ambassador has done very
much to promote friendship between our two countries, I think primarily because
of his fluent Myanmar language, which has impressed our people a lot and made
him very popular. And we look forward to expanding our relations with Russia.
See also
Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
April 26, 2019
Geography
Myanmar
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections:
Transcripts
Publication date:
April 26, 2019, 14:40
Direct link:
en.kremlin.ru/d/60390
Text version