seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/41467/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/41467/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mikhail Mishustin attends the Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
09:00
The Prime Minister made a speech at the plenary session of the forum titled: “Digital reset: leap forward to a new reality.”
Visiting an exhibition of digital projects
5 February 2021
Mikhail Mishustin and Askar Mamin at the Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
The Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
The Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
Mikhail Mishustin speaks at the Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
Mikhail Mishustin speaks at the Digital Future of the Global Economy international forum
5 February 2021
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Visiting an exhibition of digital projects
Before the plenary session, Mikhail
Mishustin and the heads of the delegations taking part in the forum watched a
presentation and visited an exhibition of digital projects.
Mikhail Mishustin’s
remarks at the plenary session of the forum:
Mikhail
Mishustin’s remarks at the plenary session of the Digital Future of the Global
Economy forum
Heads
of state and government, colleagues, forum participants,
Mikhail Mishustin attended the Digital Almaty Forum 2020
would like to thank Mr Mamin for the brilliant organisation of this forum, as
always. Taking place at a crucial time, this forum focuses on the key
challenges of digitalisation. It is such a wonderful tradition, to hold this
forum at the onset of the year in Almaty and to openly share opinions on how we
can harness digitalisation to the betterment of our countries and the
integration processes in the Eurasian Union.
Only a
year ago now, we spoke at great length about consolidating the efforts of the Union
members and yet, we did not have the slightest idea of what was just around the
corner. Nobody could ever have predicted how fast our world would change.
Visit
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Abdulla Aripov
Mikhail Mishustin meets with Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
would like to show you a short video. Please.
(Video
plays)
Governments
of the five (and other countries as well) had  difficult decisions to make on shutting down borders,
companies, social and education facilities, on introducing lockdowns,
restricting people’s movement and contacts.
did everything we possibly could to prevent the spread of the virus and to protect
our citizens’ lives. It was very important to continue providing people with
public services without exposing them to the infection.
Digital
solutions became the bridge connecting society together during self-isolation.
It was a new challenge for the country and we were ready for it.
At a
meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in December 2020, President Vladimir
Putin said: “All of us saw for ourselves that it is highly important
to use advanced information technology, given the current situation.
They largely made it possible for government agencies and virtually
all industries, education and healthcare to operate normally.”
Thanks
to the level of digital development achieved by government agencies of the
Russian Federation before the pandemic, we were able to promptly develop and also
launch platforms that were widely sought-after during that time.
These new online services, which were created in an everyday
life and business environment, made it possible to provide digital services
regardless of whether the user was at home or abroad.
We now have an entire set of modern digital services
that address the challenges posed by the pandemic.
Colleagues, we are united by the desire to form common
markets for goods, services, capital and labour within the Union. Of course,
our common goal includes modernisation, cooperation and better competitiveness
of our respective national economies.
We fully support
President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev’s position whereby comprehensive
digitalisation must become the driving force behind growth in the EAEU
countries. So, we must come up with an answer to the question of what this will
be based on. This is what Mr Golovchenko and speakers before him talked about in
detail.
The pandemic accelerated digital transformation and
exacerbated related strategic challenges and threats. Countries that do not
have proprietary digital platforms run the risk of falling into information,
political and economic dependence on other countries’ digital solutions.
I absolutely agree with the
idea that the Eurasian Council should provide our countries with this
opportunity and help us benefit from a large-scale economy, while developing
our common digital platform and, of course, preserving national sovereignty.
Last year, the five countries
made known their desire for greater cohesion, which was facilitated by taking effective
joint measures to counter the spread of the coronavirus, as well as adopting
common strategic guidelines for the Eurasian Economic Union to 2025.
The strategy’s successful implementation and deeper
integration will, of course, be directly related to promoting our joint digital
agenda and introducing electronic services into our lives. This includes
creating a single labour market, increasing exports and expanding production
chains. It is necessary to create proper conditions for fair and transparent
trade, to remove infrastructure restrictions and to tap into the transit
potential, to conduct a dialogue with the EU, and to continue to harmonise
Eurasian integration with China’s Belt and Road Initiative. This can only be implemented
on the basis of a common digital platform.
Frankly, what we see in real life is our partners’ wary
approach to digitalisation within the five countries’ space. Unfortunately, we can
see the attempts to put off the deployment of joint digital platforms and to keep
national rules and systems in place. This becomes obvious if you just take a look
at the Eurasian Economic Commission’s discussions on introducing medication
registration systems, digital vehicle passports, which we also discussed, and product
traceability and labeling systems. Colleagues, the lack, rather than
availability, of common digital platforms and systems are jeopardising our
respective economies.
If we do not create them in order to ensure
transparency of common goods markets, it will, in fact, mean restoring customs regulations
on our borders. This is what we were trying to check at the door when we created
the Union. If we delay digitalisation and unification, including customs
administration and other types of control on our outer borders for everyone in
the same manner, we will have to reinstate control measures on our internal
borders.
Our joint digital platform must focus on improving our
life and business environment. This is the only way for the public to see that
integration really does work.
The digital platform will help lift barriers that are hindering
the formation of a single market for goods, services, capital and labour within
the Union.
This is something that definitely
needs to be created with regard to the national interests and in synergy with
our information systems. This is the only way we can effectively develop our
economies together.
Colleagues, to build a
digital platform and to benefit from the advantages of big data economies, we
need to deal with a whole lot of tasks. First of all, these are legal matters:
the legally valid electronic document management in the Union, including the exchange
of personal data and its protection. It is necessary to create and also to introduce
integrated digital systems of identification of citizens and businesses (we saw
amazing Kazakhstan-made solutions today at the exhibition), and finally deal
with the issue of acceptance of electronic signatures. I think that the
Eurasian Economic Commission could put a bit more effort into these things.
Our country is facing major
objectives, and the Russian Federation also supports the initiatives of the
Eurasian Development Bank to create mobile apps that will get rid of various
barriers that are preventing our people from crossing the state borders of our Union,
searching for jobs and getting settled in the Union countries amid the pandemic.
The developed solutions
carefully tackle the issues of the trans-border transfer of personal data and
compliance with the requirements of national legislation. Participating
countries always have a choice whether to join such platforms. This is a
careful approach, the aim of which is to strengthen the trust between our
countries, which will allow for the creation of more daring digital solutions during
the times ahead.
I would like to present you
the mobile apps that were created at the initiative of Russia and with support
of the fund (we talked about this today): these are Traveling without COVID-19,
and Work in the EAEU. I am quite sure that they will both be popular with the users,
and also help improve the ties between our countries.
The first app, Traveling without
COVID-19, has been available to all citizens of Russia, Armenia and Belarus, as
well as for Union citizens who have crossed into Russia through Armenia and
Belarus since 1 February.  One just needs
to download the application, pick an available laboratory for a PCR test, get
tested and, upon receiving a negative result via the app, fly to Russia. We
hope that Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan will also join the initiative in the
nearest future, and the citizens of our respected partner countries will be
able to come to Russia without too much hassle. Please, the short video.
(Video)
I would like to thank our colleagues here, Nikolai Podguzov and Tigran
Sargsyan, for working so speedily and energetically.
The second app, which we have discussed in detail during our meetings,
is Work in the EAEU. It helps a person searching for a job in a member country.
This is an integrated service that can be used to find vacancies and get all
the necessary paperwork done, including receiving a medical insurance. It can
also help with finding accommodation.
We expect that the integrated mobile app will comprise the national
systems of the digital migration services of our countries. We have already started
to work on it to ensure hassle-free entry into the country. And, I believe that
it will be a cool, seamless service for all jobseekers wishing to work in our
countries. Almost all issues related to jobs and accommodation in Russia, in
particular, can be dealt with before a person actually  moves and without the use of often
unscrupulous agents.
We plan to finish the development of this service at the onset of the
next year and we really do hope that other Union states will join it. Then we
will create an integrated labour market of our Union, as it is stated in our
main documents.
Please, the next video.
(Video)
Friends and colleagues,
The world has entered the digital era, the fourth industrial revolution.
Digital platforms are currently the locomotive of the economic growth of the
countries that actively use them. The top twenty companies in terms of shared
capital are digital giants that collect data (all of the speakers already mentioned
this today) and create digital platforms. I am confident that the creation of the
Union digital platform will provide us with opportunities to increase the
efficiency of our work and GDP, as well as to create a solid base for the Union.
Thank you.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/41467/
Highlight selection