seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/43949/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/43949/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Photos
30 November 2021
13:20
Government House, Moscow
The meeting was held via videoconference.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s remarks at the 26th
regular meeting
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the 26th regular meeting
Documents signed following the meeting
Excerpts from the transcript:
26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
Mikhail Mishustin at the 26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
Signing of documents during the 26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
Mikhail Mishustin at the signing of documents during the 26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
Yury Trutnev, Tatyana Golikova, Andrei Belousov, Alexander Novak and Dmitry Chernyshenko at the 26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
30 November 2021
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
26th regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Li Keqiang
(via interpreter)
Mr Prime Minister, I am very
pleased to be holding the 26th regular meeting of heads of government with you,
via videoconference.
We have recently participated in the SCO Heads of Government Council and
ASEM meeting. This regular meeting, held online, is an opportunity to look back
on the past year and assess the development of hands-on cooperation between the
two countries across all areas, as well as to exchange views on the further
deepening of interaction.
China and Russia
are the largest neighbouring countries. We provide each other with development
opportunities and are global partners. Moreover, this year we marked the 20th
anniversary of the signing of the Treaty on Good Neighbourliness, Friendship
and Cooperation. In this regard, President Xi Jinping and President Putin
issued a joint statement on the extension of this treaty, which is already
filled with new content.
Now our two countries are putting a lot of effort into the COVID-19
response. Our multifaceted cooperation is growing steadily, showing good
results. In the first 10 months alone, bilateral trade reached $11.56 billion –
that is an increase of 30.8 percent. This indicator alone convincingly reveals the
enormous potential and broad prospects for our cooperation.
True, the pandemic situation gives us no cause for optimism: new strains
continue to appear, and it is very difficult to predict how this virus will attack
us next or whether it is going to get even worse. Moreover, the global economy
continues to recover sluggishly. The unpredictability and instability of the
global situation is, if anything, growing.
Russia and China are leading and at the same time growing
economies, and in this regard, China
is ready, together with our Russian partners, to intensify contacts, to improve
coordination, to jointly reveal the cooperation potential, and increase the
level of interaction. We are also ready to work together in the fight against
COVID-19, to ensure the resilience of the global supply and production chains, to
strengthen green growth, contribute to the sustainable recovery of the global
economy, and play a bigger role in promoting peace and stability in the region
and in the world.
Mikhail Mishustin
: Mr Li Keqiang, colleagues,
I am delighted to welcome you to the 26th regular meeting of Russian and
Chinese heads of government.
First of all, I would like to extend my warmest greetings to you and to all
our Chinese friends on an important event – this year, the Chinese Communist
Party marks its centenary. Our countries carefully preserve their common
history. We sincerely wish you every success.
Today, Russian-Chinese relations, our comprehensive partnership and
strategic cooperation, are at their highest level in centuries, and they continue
to grow dynamically on the basis of the Treaty of Good Neighbourliness,
Friendship and Cooperation. The regular meetings of heads of government play a
significant role in this, as do five intergovernmental commissions, which also
met during this difficult year despite the coronavirus. We will hear their
co-chairs’ reports today.
The leaders of our countries, President Vladimir Putin and President Xi
Jinping, have instructed the governments to consistently expand hands-on cooperation
in all areas. We have already achieved good results, primarily, as you have
just said, in mutual trade. In January-October, bilateral trade grew by 31
percent to $110 billion, which is a very significant amount.
By the end of 12 months, we expect to reach new record figures. We are
determined to bring bilateral trade to $200 billion in the next three years, as
the heads of states have instructed us.
Russian-Chinese relations have a special value because they cover all
areas and opportunities for interaction. Our energy cooperation has become
complex and truly strategic. The Power of Siberia gas pipeline is operating steadily.
The delivery of Russian liquefied
natural gas to Chinese consumers is proceeding on schedule within the framework
of the joint Yamal LNG project via the Northern Sea Route.
New achievements have been
reported in peaceful nuclear projects. The construction of four reactors for
the Russian-designed nuclear power plants has been launched in China with the
participation of Russian professionals. Rosatom has interesting cooperation
proposals. This is especially important in the context of the global climate
agenda, considering green and safe nuclear power plants produce no greenhouse
gas emissions.
Of course, I would like to say a
few words about our humanitarian ties, which constitute the social basis of
Russian-Chinese neighbourliness and are strengthening the traditions of
friendship, which we will pass on to future generations.
We have held the successful
China-Russia Year of Scientific and Technological Innovation. The programme
included over a thousand joint events. Our scientists and researchers exchanged
experience and developed useful contacts. Another important outcome of the
cross-yeas was the decision on the participation of Chinese professionals in
the Russian NICA mega-science project. It offers opportunities for unique
experiments and will become the driver of our scientific and technical
cooperation.
Colleagues, Russia-China
cooperation is developing amid a complicated international situation.
Regrettably, some of our foreign partners continue to take unfriendly actions
towards us, using unfair competition and frequently violating the basic norms
of the multilateral trade system. Both Russia
and China
have to deal with the challenge of illegal sanctions and political and economic
pressure.
The best response in this
situation will be rallying efforts in the interests of joint development based
on the principles of equality, mutual trust and respect, as well as the
alignment of the projects underway in the Eurasian Economic Union with China’s Belt
and Road Initiative. This is important for strengthening connectivity in
Eurasia, will help ensure the economic progress of Russia
and China,
and will create a reliable basis for implementing the idea of the Greater
Eurasian Partnership proposed by President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
Mr Li Keqiang, colleagues, we
have a busy agenda today. There are many strategic issues on it. I am sure that
we will be able to coordinate practical solutions, which will give additional
momentum to the further development of comprehensive and multifaceted
cooperation between Russia
and China.
Documents signed
following the 26th regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of
government
Joint Communique on the outcome
of the 26th regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government
Signed by: Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
Li Keqiang
Protocol of the 8th meeting of
the Intergovernmental Russian-Chinese Commission on Investment Cooperation
Signed by:
First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian
Federation Andrei Belousov and Vice Premier of the State
Council of the People's Republic of China Han Zheng
Protocol of the 18th meeting of
the Intergovernmental Russian-Chinese Commission on Energy Cooperation
Signed by: Deputy
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation
Alexander Novak and Vice Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic
of China
Han Zheng
Protocol of the 22nd meeting of
the Russian-Chinese Commission for Humanitarian Cooperation
Signed by: Deputy
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Tatyana Golikova and Vice Premier of
the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Sun Chunlan
Protocol of the 25th meeting of
the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings of the Prime
Ministers
Signed by:
Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian
Federation Dmitry Chernyshenko and Vice Premier of
the State Council of the People's Republic of China Hu
Chunhua
Protocol of the meeting of the
co-chairs of the Russia-China Intergovernmental Commission on Cooperation and
Development of the Far East and Baikal Region of Russia
and of Northeast China
Signed by: Deputy
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation – Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy
to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev and Vice Premier of
the State Council of the People's Republic of China Hu
Chunhua
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/43949/
Highlight selection