seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/49879/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/49879/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang
25 October 2023
16:50
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic
The meeting took place on the sidelines of the heads of government summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
Excerpts from
the transcript:
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of China Li Qiang
25 October 2023
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Qiang
25 October 2023
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of China Li Qiang
Li Qiang
(via
interpreter):
Mr Prime Minister, allow me
to speak first. I am delighted to see you again. We had very friendly and in-depth talks in Beijing
last May, and for me, our meeting in Bishkek today brings back very warm
feelings. Thanks to the strategic leadership of President Xi Jinping and President Putin, our countries have maintained a high level of mutual political
trust. Bilateral relations are steadily expanding, and our practical
cooperation is also making active progress across the board.
Visit
Meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of Government
Meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Meeting of the SCO Heads of Government Council
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with Prime Minister of Mongolia Luvsannamsrain Oyun-Erdene
Mikhail Mishustin’s meeting with First Vice President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Mokhber
Briefing by Alexei Overchuk following the meetings of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, the CIS Council of Heads of Government and the SCO Council of Heads of Government
Cooperation between China
and Russia
is not directed against any third parties, nor is it subject to outside
influence or dictates. It is focused on ensuring the well-being of our peoples,
promoting development around the world and defending international fairness.
Last week, our leaders had very fruitful talks in Beijing. They charted
some new goals for the further advancement of Chinese-Russian ties. And we are
ready, together with our Russian colleagues, to continue our efforts to deepen
cooperation across the board and strengthen bilateral relations and our
strategic partnership, on the basis of the important agreements reached between
our leaders.
I am prepared to discuss all issues of shared interest
with you.
Mikhail
Mishustin:
Thank you. Greetings, Mr Li Qiang, colleagues. I am sincerely glad to see you
again.
I have fond memories of my visit to friendly China in May,
too. I would certainly like to use this opportunity to ask you to extend the most heartfelt greetings and best wishes to Mr Xi Jinping on behalf of President of Russia Vladimir Putin and myself.
You mentioned the Russian President’s visit to China on 17–18
October, where he took part in the third Belt and Road International Forum. I would like to sincerely congratulate our Chinese friends on that successful
event.
The initiative the President of China proposed for broader cooperation between the states on the historical Silk Road is highly relevant in the current political situation. We are
working together to align it with the Eurasian Economic Union project and potentially to establish the Greater Eurasian Partnership in the future.
Russian-Chinese ties, our comprehensive partnership
and strategic cooperation have reached an unprecedented level and continue to strengthen. Our cooperation relies on traditions of neighbourliness as well as the principles of equality and mutual respect.
Mr Li Qiang, we have implemented the decisions taken
by President of Russia Vladimir Putin and President of China Xi Jinping, which
included defining the parameters for Russian-Chinese cooperation until 2030.
Russia and China
provide mutual support in protecting each other’s fundamental interests. We
closely coordinate our steps at multilateral platforms such as the SCO and BRICS, and we are jointly building a multipolar architecture of international
relations.
As our Chinese friends say, cooperation between Russia and China “is cutting through the waves, riding a tailwind.”
Despite the difficult external situation, our trade
and economic cooperation is growing. More than 90 percent of cross-border
transactions are carried out in national currencies – in roubles and yuan.
Last year, our mutual trade reached a record level. In January-September, it added another 27 percent compared to the same period in 2022, reaching 16 trillion Russian roubles, or 1.2 trillion Chinese yuan.
We are enhancing our partnership in the energy sector.
Russia is boosting its oil,
natural gas, coal, and electricity exports to China. We are also stepping up
industrial cooperation and developing new joint projects. There are ample
opportunities for collaboration in the end-to-end technologies segment as well.
Russia and China
are accelerating the development of transport and logistics routes and border
infrastructure. Russia
is increasing agricultural exports; in January-August, they almost doubled to 500 billion roubles, or more than 35 billion yuan.
And of course, cultural and humanitarian ties remain a very important component of our cooperation. The governments are jointly
preparing for the Cross Years of Culture of Russia and China scheduled
for 2024–2025.
We will also be delighted to see Chinese participants
at the first international phygital tournament, Games of the Future in Kazan in 2024.
Esteemed Mr Li Qiang, we have a broad and substantive
agenda. Let us get started.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/49879/
Highlight selection