seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/29971/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/29971/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Dmitry Medvedev's online news conference in Beijing
31 October 2017
13:30
Beijing, People's Republic of China
The Prime Minister answered questions via the online edition of the People's Daily Online (Renminwang).
Online conference in Beijing
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev lays a wreath at the Monument to the People's Heroes in Beijing
Dmitry Medvedev’s talks with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang
Dmitry Medvedev bestows Russian state awards on Chinese citizens
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang attend the closing ceremony for the years of Russian and Chinese media
Dmitry Medvedev meets with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People’s Republic of China Zhang Dejiang
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
Dmitry Medvedev’s online news
conference with Chinese internet users took place at the headquarters of the People’s
Daily Online, part of the People’s Daily Group (Renmin Ribao). The news
conference was broadcast on the Rossiya Segodnya International Information
Agency website for Russian users.
This format was chosen to mark
Dmitry Medvedev’s conference that took place ten years ago at the Rossiya
Segodnya headquarters (then RIA Novosti) in Moscow, partnered by the Chinese
media holding, Renmin Ribao.
Dmitry Medvedev’s online conference
Excerpts from the transcript:
Dmitry Medvedev’s online conference in Beijing
Online conference in Beijing
Anchor
(via
interpreter)
: China and Russia are good neighbours, friends
and partners. Ten years ago, on 2 February 2007 Mr Medvedev (then the First
Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Government) talked from Moscow with
Chinese internet users through our website. Now, ten years on, Prime Minister
Medvedev is our guest and will talk to our internet users about the deepening of
relations between China and Russia as well as the consolidation of our
friendship. Welcome Mr Prime Minister.
Dmitry Medvedev
: Good
afternoon.
Anchor
: We thank you
for being our guest again. The announcement about this event has evoked
interest from our users. Right now we have collected 1,200 questions. Our users
are very active. Today’s interview will be broadcast live with the help of our
venue – website Renminwang. The Rossiya Segodnya Russian news agency will also
broadcast live the event. Let’s see the questions.
Here is a question about the 19
congress. The 19
Congress of the Communist Party of China ended quite recently. It was a big
event. Xi Jinping was reelected General Secretary of the Central Committee of
the Communist Party of China. You sent him greetings on this occasion. He set
forth a new thesis about the start of a new era of socialism with Chinese
specific characteristics. One of our users asked about your opinion of the
results of this congress.
Dmitry Medvedev
: I would like to say a very good
afternoon to everyone who is watching this meeting. I am glad to have this
opportunity to talk with you, dear friends, at the offices of the People’s
Daily media holding and its online platform, People’s Daily Online or
Renminwang.
Regarding the first question I have received, the 19th Congress of the
Communist Party of China is a vastly important event in the life of the People’s
Republic of China. More than that, it is an event that surpasses the scale of
China because it is a very special congress that has been convened to map out
the development of China’s future. We in Russia watched it very closely and
took note of its results.
Russia and China maintain very good and I would even say special relations
not only at state level, where our relations can be
described as strategic partnership and cooperation, but also at the level of
our parties. When Mr Xi Jinping was re-elected General Secretary of the Central
Committee of the
Communist Party of China, United Russia, which I have the honour to chair,
immediately sent its greetings to the President of China. I was happy to do
this, especially considering that our parties have been fostering dialogue and
cooperation over the past 12 years, and that we maintain interaction not only
at state level but also between our parties.
Speaking about the results of the 19th Congress, I would like to say that
we have taken note of their strategic nature as well as of the consolidation of
Chinese society around the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China
and the leader of the People’s Republic of China. It is obvious that it will
take a very long time to implement the prospects opened at the congress, in
particular, the transitioning to a new stage in social development, which is
referred to as socialism with Chinese characteristics. We are aware of the
importance of these statements and goals. We strongly hope that these goals
that have been set out at the congress will be achieved. We wish our Chinese
friends, the leaders of the Communist Party of China and President of the
People’s Republic of China Mr Xi Jinping every success in the implementation of
the decisions taken at the congress.
Anchor:
Thank you for your kind words. You have said that you followed the 19
Congress. What part of it was especially important for you?
Dmitry Medvedev:
Several moments were important for us. It is clear that we would like to
continue the course we have been pursuing in recent years by developing a
multi-faceted dialogue, an equal dialogue between our countries, as well as
strategic partnership. The decisions of the Congress, as I see them, are the
best confirmation of that, because there is continuity in the goals which were
set last time, as well as new horizons. Of course, we also see the decisions of
the Congress from the perspective of the development of Russia-China relations.
We believe that all is well in this sense, and the prospects outlined by the
Congress inspire us.
Anchor:
Let’s turn to other issues. We have a question from a user who talked to
you 10 years ago. He would like to know, what are the most significant changes
in today’s China compared to what you saw 10 years ago?
Dmitry Medvedev:
I see changes every time I visit China. I remember my first visit, which
took place in 2000, when I visited the capital, Beijing, for the first time,
and I can compare it to this year. The People’s Republic of China, all the
places I’ve visited, continue to shock me, in a good way, because they show
very rapid and large-scale development on all fronts. Wherever I go – the
capital or various provinces I’ve visited recently (these were very interesting
places where various events were held, and some have a very historical character
and some are large cities that were recently constructed) – all these places
have inspired me with their development rates and the improvement which can be seen
throughout the whole of China. The development of transport arteries, the construction
of modern buildings, both residential and commercial, and the development of
general infrastructure – all of that cannot help but inspire and gladden. I
think these are major achievements which have taken place during these years
and which you can be proud of. It is really a very good, very inspiring
example.
At the same time, a lot of attention is paid to historic landmarks. When we
were holding a joint conference on the internet and I met with Chinese President Xi Jinping
in Wuzhen, I could not help admiring the beauty of this small but very nice
historical town, where you can get a taste of Chinese history. At the same
time, it is a very good and modern tourism centre. In this sense, I discover
something new every time I visit the People’s Republic of China. Even today,
while I was going through the streets of Beijing, I saw new buildings as well
as some elements of a new atmosphere of this large city, although I had been here
just recently.
So, I think the
changes are significant, but, at the same time, you managed to preserve your
best traditions.
More and more Chinese tourists are coming
to Russia, and they all have a question on a very specific topic: is Russia
thinking about easing visa requirements for Chinese tourists?
Dmitry
Medvedev
Last year, some 1.2 million Chinese tourists visited Russia, and in the first
six months of 2017 we saw an increase of about 20 percent.
We recently provided new visa
options. One of them is to enter Russian territory through Russia’s Far East,
in Vladivostok, by using an electronic visa. Instead of visiting various
agencies and queuing, all you have to do to obtain a visa is to fill out a
form. This visa is valid for 30 days with a period of stay of up to eight days.
There is another option currently
in place as well whereby a person can arrive without a visa, if travelling with
a tourist group of five or more people and staying in Russia for up to two
weeks.
We intend to expand this option in
the near future. The Russian Government is currently reviewing a document
reducing the size of the group (three tourists or more) and extending the
period of stay to three weeks.
These are special provisions for
Chinese tourists, and nobody else.
Anchor
: Russia will host the
FIFA World Cup next year. We have a question from one of our users: will there
be any benefits for football fans?
Dmitry
Medvedev
We are now hard at work preparing for the World Cup. This is not an easy task,
since it will take place in a number of cities. This is a major project that is
about to be completed.
Russia hosted the FIFA Confederations
Cup not that long ago as a prelude to the World Cup. It can be viewed as a mini
World Cup, since there are fewer host cities involved. We are ready.
Football fans will be able to move
from one World Cup host city to another without any restrictions or problems
using their Fan IDs. This identification document serves multiple purposes,
starting from entering Russia. Its holders will be able to enter Russia 10 days
before the World Cup actually begins, throughout the tournament and 10 days
after it ends. No visas will be required. All that people have to do is go
through the registration process for obtaining a Fan ID. After that, they will
be entitled to a package of services, which include among other things, free
public transit in the World Cup host cities, including fixed route taxis.
To a certain extent, we have taken
an unprecedented step, considering that Russia is a large country and even
World Cup host cities are far and wide apart: we will launch special trains to
enable football fans to follow their team from one city to another. These
trains will be free too. Only one requirement is needed and that’s to fill out the
relevant forms to get a ticket.
I’m not even going to bother to mention
any of the more trivial services like of course free WiFi, and the many other
benefits that football fans will be entitled to.
Anchor
: What Chinese technologies and investments does Russia welcome?
Dmitry Medvedev
: We have very strong investment cooperation with our
Chinese colleagues. Recently, we have established a special format, which is an
investment commission headed by the first deputy prime ministers of our
countries. A large number of projects which are worth tens of billions of
dollars have been selected. They focus primarily on high technology and digital
economy. In this sense, we are following a common path, trying to develop the
latest and innovative spheres of our life.
Speaking about online services, a
significant portion of such services, including e-commerce and online commerce,
is related to products that are made in China, in particular, the services are
used which are provided from your country. Now, we need to think about how to
develop the logistics, how to make it more convenient for large numbers of
customers, because the market for such services is growing every day across the
world. The online market in Russia is measured in trillions of roubles, but
this is still only a small fraction of what can be obtained in the future.
There are a
number of areas related to high technology where we enjoy advanced cooperation,
including nuclear energy, space and aircraft construction. We have good
projects and enjoy significant successes. I hope that all our plans will come
to fruition.
This area is
currently one of the most important areas of our cooperation.
Speaking about
cooperation with China in the sphere of economy, this cooperation has picked up
a fairly good pace in recent years. Even despite the economic crisis of 2008
and the recent issues in the global economy, this cooperation is still on the
rise. Compared to last year when we observed an increase in mutual trade by
about 4 percent, our trade is up by 35 percent for the first eight months of
this year. This is a very good figure. We hope that these figures will continue
into the future. These figures mean jobs, services and goods that we deliver
from Russia to China and from China to Russia. In fact, this is what economic
growth is all about.
Anchor:
If Chinese
investment comes to Russia, what benefits will it enjoy?
Dmitry
Medvedev:
In the past few years we have been trying to encourage foreign
investment, including from our big friend and neighbour – the People’s Republic
of China ­­ –  in particular to the
Russian Far East (not only to the Far East but understandably it is in close
contact with nearby Chinese provinces). This is why we are using a number of
new forms of cooperation – technology parks, agro-industrial parks and
technology clusters that we are forming to develop cooperation in high-tech
areas.
There is
yet another form that we have recently introduced, incorporating, among other
things, the experience of China and some other Asia-Pacific countries. I am
referring to priority socio-economic development areas. We are forming them in
the Far East and some other parts of the country. They have preferential tax
treatment. For instance, in these areas we do not levy tax on profit which is
paid to the federal budget.  This zero
rate is valid for five years. We have substantially reduced part of the tax on
profit which is paid to regional budgets. The rate of social payments there has
been reduced four times, and there are practically zero rates on property and
many other benefits. So we invite all companies to invest in these areas. A
fairly large number of investment projects with China are currently at the
implementation stage, both in the Far East and other parts of this country.
These are
projects in the conventional power industry (oil and gas) and new areas of our
cooperation, including agro-industrial cooperation, high technology and housing
construction. There are good projects in all of these areas. We hope more
projects will be launched in the next few years.
Anchor
: What do you expect from our relations and cooperation during the next
stage?
Dmitry Medvedev
: In recent years, our relations have reached a level
where they are to some extent even free from the outcome of the elections. This
is a strategic relationship geared towards the future, future generations. I am
confident that after the elections, during the next political cycle in our
country, these relations will remain unchanged. They will follow an ascending
trajectory precisely because both our countries are interested in these
relations.
Perhaps,
our relations with China are now at their all-time high. These are equal and
friendly relations based on non-interference in each other's domestic affairs,
respectful dialogue, partnership, and interaction on all issues, including the
economy and international issues. So, I am absolutely confident that these
relations will continue to develop.
Anchor
: With regard to the alignment of the Belt and Road initiative and the
Eurasian Economic Union, what do you expect from the realisation of this idea?
Dmitry Medvedev
: We, of course, expect that this will result in
economic dividends and bring a solution to a number of economic issues, both in
the sphere of infrastructure and other areas of investment. Acting within the
framework of contacts that exist at the level of the heads of state and heads
of government, we strive to establish proper cooperation between China and the
Eurasian Economic Union. This opens up additional opportunities, including for
Chinese investment and for promoting China’s cooperation not only with Russia
but also with other countries that are members of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Speaking about
the Belt and Road platform, it is a strategic project implemented by China in a
collaborative effort with other countries. We use this project to discuss the most
diverse forms of aligning economic projects and, of course, the social
consequences of this cooperation.
Anchor:
President Xi
Jinping gave guidelines on China’s development until the middle of this
century. What is your vision of China in 2050?
Dmitry
Medvedev:
I am sure that China will be a prosperous, well-organised modern
country, which will be comfortable for its citizens to live in.
Anchor:
What do you think
Russia will be like by that time?
Dmitry
Medvedev:
We also believe that we will be able to do as much as we can during
these years to ensure the development of our country, so that it can become
stronger, modern and prosperous, so that people in our country can feel as
comfortable as possible, and all the tasks that we are working on now, including
in education, healthcare and social security, can be accomplished.
The world
does not stand still, so it is hard to guess what it will be like by 2050 or
any other date, for that matter. Clearly, it will be more reliant on high
technology, with artificial intelligence being used everywhere. I think we
could also strengthen our cooperation in this area, in the sectors where modern
artificial intelligence is used in one form or another, and we can also lay a
foundation to build upon in the future. I mean driverless cars, which are
gradually appearing in the world. This is also about the future, and we should
also cooperate in this area given the potential for technological development
that we possess.
Most
importantly, we must retain good and friendly relations between our countries
and our peoples, the atmosphere of trust which has invariably been typical of
our cooperation in recent years. Our countries can influence many things at
international venues, our countries are very important global players, they are
permanent members of the UN Security Council and simply have friendly feelings
towards each other. That is why we will strengthen our relations with the
People’s Republic of China in the international arena as well.
Anchor:
What role will China
and Russia be playing in the international arena by that time?
Dmitry
Medvedev:
I strongly believe that jointly with the People’s Republic of China we
will play a significant role in making the most vital decisions for the
development of our countries and the promotion of intergovernmental and
international cooperation. Our countries are bearing great responsibility. The
People’s Republic of China is one of the world’s largest economies. I do not
think it would be an exaggeration to say that in the near future China will
obviously become the world’s largest economy, and this of itself is a major
factor of development. Our country is also a major participant in the global
dialogue of the international community. We are permanent members of the
Security Council and take decisions in very difficult situations as we are
responsible for peace on the planet. I believe we will be able to continue
cooperating like this.
Anchor:
What song would
you recommend to our internet users both for singing and simply listening?
Dmitry
Medvedev
: I think acquaintance with Russia should start with famous songs. For
instance, Katyusha is a song from a certain historical period. It is well known
in Russia, China and other countries. By the way, Katyusha is also the name of
a new channel which is about to start broadcasting for the Chinese audience. So I
invite everyone to watch it.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/29971/
Highlight selection