seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/21784/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/21784/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Munich Security Conference
13 February 2016
12:00
Munich, Germany
Dmitry Medvedev's speech at the panel discussion.
Dmitry Medvedev’s speech
Excerpts from replies to questions by journalists
Transcript:
Dmitry Medvedev's speech at the panel discussion
Dmitry Medvedev:
Ladies and
gentlemen, distinguished
colleague Mr Valls, distinguished Mr Ischinger, my speech will be of a more general nature, but I hope it will be useful.
The first cold war
ended 25 years ago. This is not long in terms of history, but it is a
considerable period for individual people and even for generations. And it is
certainly sufficient for assessing our common victories and losses, setting new
goals and, of course, avoiding a repetition of past mistakes.
The Munich Security
Conference has been known as a venue for heated and frank discussion. This is my first time here. Today I’d like to tell you
about Russia’s assessment of the current European security situation and
possible solutions to our common problems, which have been aggravated by the
deterioration of relations between Russia and the West.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev’s interview for Handelsblatt, Germany
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with President of the Republic of Finland Sauli Niinistö
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Russian and German business leaders at the Munich Security Conference
Dmitry Medvedev's meeting with Prime Minister of Bavaria Horst Seehofer
Dmitry Medvedev's conversation with President of Slovenia Borut Pahor
Dmitry Medvedev's conversation with Prime Minister of France Manuel Valls
Dmitry Medvedev's interview with Euronews TV channel
Dmitry Medvedev's interview with Time magazine
Before coming to
this conference, I met with President Putin. We talked about his speech at the
Munich conference in 2007. He said then that ideological stereotypes, double
standards and unilateral actions do not ease but only fan tensions in
international relations, reducing the international community’s opportunities
for adopting meaningful political decisions.
Did we overstate
this? Were our assessments of the situation too pessimistic? Unfortunately, I
have to say that the situation is now even worse than we feared. Developments
have taken a much more dramatic turn since 2007. The concept of Greater Europe
has not materialised. Economic growth has been very weak. Conflicts in the
Middle East and North Africa have increased in scale. The migration crisis is
pushing Europe towards collapse. Relations between Europe and Russia have
soured. A civil war is raging in Ukraine.
In this context, we
need to launch an intensive dialogue on the future architecture of
Euro-Atlantic security, global stability and regional threats more than ever
before. I consider it unacceptable that this dialogue has almost ceased in many
spheres. The problem of miscommunication has been widely recognised both in
Western Europe and in Russia. The mechanisms that allowed us to promptly settle
mutual concerns have been cut off. Moreover, we’ve lost our grasp of the
culture of mutual arms control, which we used for a long time as the basis for
strengthening mutual trust. Partnership initiatives, which took much time and
effort to launch, are expiring one by one. The proposed European security
treaty has been put on hold. The idea of a Russia-EU Committee on Foreign
Policy and Security, which I discussed with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in
Meseberg, has not materialised. We believe that NATO’s policy towards Russia
remains unfriendly and generally obdurate.
Speaking bluntly,
we are rapidly rolling into a period of a new cold war. Russia has been
presented as well-nigh the biggest threat to NATO, or to Europe, America and
other countries (and Mr Stoltenberg has just demonstrated that). They show
frightening films about Russians starting a nuclear war. I am sometimes
confused: is this 2016 or 1962?
But the real
threats to this small world are of an absolutely different nature, as I hope
you will admit. The term “European security” is now more embracing that it used
to be. Forty years ago it concerned above all military and political relations
in Europe.  But new issues have come to
the fore since then, such as sustainable economic development, inequality and
poverty, unprecedented migration, new forms of terrorism and regional
conflicts, including in Europe. I am referring to Ukraine, the volatile
Balkans, and Moldova that is teetering on the brink of a national collapse.
The cross-border
threats and challenges, which we for a while believed to have been overcome,
have returned with a new strength. The new threats, primarily terrorism and
extremism, have lost their abstract form for the majority of people. They have
become reality for millions in many countries. As Mr Valls has just mentioned,
they have become a daily threat. We can expect an airplane to be blown up or
people in a café to be shot every day. These used to be everyday events in the
Middle East, but now it’s the same the world over.
We see that
economic, social and military challenges have become mutually complementary.
But we continue to act randomly, inconsistently, and in many cases exclusively in
our own national interests. Or a scapegoat is appointed in an arbitrary manner.
I am offering you five theses
on security as such.
First, the economy.
We have approached
a change in paradigm in international economic relations. The traditional
schemes are no longer effective. Political expediency is taking priority over
simple and clear economic reason. The code of conduct is revised ad hoc to suit
a specific problem or task or is bluntly ignored. I’ll just point out how the
International Monetary Fund adjusted its fundamental rules on lending to
countries with overdue sovereign debt when the issue concerned Ukraine’s
sovereign debt to Russia.
Talks on creating
economic mega-blocs could result in the erosion of the system of global
economic rules.
Globalisation,
which was a desired objective, has to a certain extent played a cruel joke on
us. I personally talked about this with my colleagues at the G8 meetings when
everyone needed them. But times change rapidly. Even a minor economic shift in
one country now hits whole markets and countries almost immediately. And global
regulation mechanisms cannot effectively balance national interests.
The energy market remains extremely unstable.
Its volatility has affected both importers and exporters.
We regret that the
practice of unilateral economic pressure in the form of sanctions is gaining
momentum. Decisions are taken arbitrarily and at times in violation of
international law. This is undermining the operating foundations of
international economic organisations, including the World Trade Organisation.
We have always said, I have always said that sanctions hit not only those
against whom they are imposed but also those who use them as an instrument of
pressure. How many joint initiatives have been suspended because of sanctions! I
have just met with German businessmen and we discussed this issue. Have we
properly calculated not only the direct but also the indirect costs for
European and Russian business? Are our differences really so deep, or are they
not worth it? All of you here in this audience – do you really need this?
This is a road to
nowhere. Everyone will suffer, mark my words. It is vitally important that we
join forces to strengthen a new global system that can combine the principles
of effectiveness and fairness, market openness and social protection.
Second, the crisis
of the global economic development model is creating conditions for a variety
of conflicts, including regional conflicts.
European
politicians thought that the creation of the so-called belt of friendly
countries on the outer border of the EU would reliably guarantee security. But
what are the results of this policy? What you have is not a belt of friendly
countries, but an exclusion zone with local conflicts and economic trouble both
on the eastern borders (Ukraine and Moldova) and on the southern borders (the
Middle East and North Africa, Libya and Syria).
The result is that
these regions have become a common headache for all of us.
Dmitry Medvedev's speech at the panel discussion
The Normandy format
has helped us launch negotiations on Ukraine. We believe that there are no
better instruments for a peaceful settlement than the Minsk Agreements.
We welcome France’s
balanced and constructive stance on Ukraine and on all other acute
international issues. I fully agree with Mr Valls that the Russian-French
dialogue never stopped, and that it has produced concrete results.
It is true that all
sides must comply with the Minsk Agreements. But implementation primarily
depends on Kiev. Why them? Not because we are trying to shift responsibility,
but because it’s their time.
The situation is
very unstable, despite progress made in a number of areas (heavy weaponry
withdrawal, the OSCE mission and other issues).
What is Russia’s
biggest concern?
First and most
important, a comprehensive ceasefire is not being observed in southeastern
Ukraine. Shooting is routinely reported at the line of contact, which should
not be happening. And we must send a clear signal to all the parties involved,
in this regard.
Second, amendments
to the Ukrainian Constitution have not been approved to this day, although this
should have been done by the end of 2015. And the law on a special status for
Donbass has not been implemented.
Instead
of coordinating specific decentralisation parameters with the regions, and this
is the crucial issue, Ukraine has adopted so-called “transitional provisions,” even though the above requirements were put in black
and white in the Minsk Agreements.
Third, Kiev continues to insist that
local elections be based on a new Ukrainian law. Furthermore, Kiev has not
implemented its commitment on a broad amnesty that should embrace all those who
were involved in the developments in Ukraine in 2014-2015. Without being
amnestied, these people will be unable to participate in elections, which will
make any election results questionable. The OSCE will not endorse this.
As I said, the Minsk Agreements must
be implemented in full and this
is Russia’s stance on the issue.  At the same time, being reasonable people open to discussing various
ideas, including a compromise, we, for instance, accepted the initiative of Mr Steinmeier on the
temporary application of the law on special status as soon as the election
campaign begins. After the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human
Rights recognises the election results, this law must be applied permanently. But there’s still no progress here,
despite the compromise suggested.
Of course, the humanitarian
situation is extremely alarming. The economy of southeastern Ukraine is
deteriorating, that part of Ukraine is blockaded, and the German Chancellor’s
initiative on the restoration of the banking system in the region there has been rejected. Tens of
thousands of people are living on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe.
Oddly, Russia seems to be more concerned
about this than Ukraine, why
is this so? We have been sending and will have to continue sending
humanitarian convoys to southeastern Ukraine.
I must say that Russia has shown and
will continue to show
reasonable flexibility in the implementation of the Minsk Agreements where this
doesn’t contradict their essence. But we can’t do what is not in our
competence. That is, we cannot implement the political and legal obligations of
the Kiev government. This is under the direct authority of the President, the
Government and the Parliament of Ukraine. But unfortunately, it appears that they don’t have the
will or a desire to do it. I think this has become obvious to everyone.
As for Syria, we have been working
and will continue to work to implement joint peace initiatives. This is a
difficult path, but there is no alternative to an interethnic and
interreligious dialogue. We must preserve Syria as a union state and prevent
its dissolution for denominational reasons. The world will not survive another
Libya, Yemen or Afghanistan. The consequences of this scenario will be
catastrophic for the Middle East. The work of the International Syria Support Group gives us a certain
hope. They gathered here the day before yesterday and coordinated a list of
practical measures aimed at implementing the UN Security Council Resolution
2254, including the delivery of humanitarian aid to civilians and outlining the
conditions for a ceasefire, except for terrorist groups, of course. The implementation
of these measures is to be led by Russia and the United States. I would like to
emphasise that the daily work of the Russian and American militaries is the key
here. I’m talking about regular work without the need to seek incidental
contacts, day-to-day work, everyday work.
course, there should be no preliminary conditions to start the talks on the
settlement between the Syrian government and opposition, and there is no need
to impend anyone with a land military operation.
Third, we sincerely believe that if
we fail to normalise the situation in Syria and other conflict areas, terrorism
will become a new form of war that will spread around the world. It will not be
just a new form of war but a method of settling ethnic and religious conflict,
and a form of quasi-state governance.
Imagine a group of countries that are governed by terrorists through
terrorism. Is this the 21
century?
It is common knowledge that
terrorism is not a problem within individual countries. Russia first raised
this alarm two decades ago. We tried to convince our partners that the core
causes were not just ethnic or religious differences. Take ISIS, whose ideology
is not based on Islamic values but on a blood-thirsty desire to kill and
destroy. Terrorism is civilisation’s problem. It’s either us or them, and it’s time for everyone to
realise this. There are no nuances or undertones, no justifications for
terrorist actions, no dividing terrorists into ours or theirs, into moderate or
extremist.
The destruction of the Russian plane
over Sinai, the terrorist attacks in Paris, London, Israel, Lebanon, Pakistan,
Iraq, Mali, Yemen and other countries, the grisly executions of hostages,
thousands of victims, and endless other threats are evidence that international
terrorism defies state borders. Terrorists and extremists are trying to spread
their influence not only throughout the Middle East and North Africa but also
to the whole of Central Asia. Unfortunately, they have so far been successful, mostly
because we are unable to set our differences aside and to really join forces
against them. Even cooperation at the security services level has been
curtailed. And this is ridiculous, like we don’t want to work with you. Daesh
should be grateful to my colleagues, the leaders of the Western countries who
have suspended this cooperation.
Before coming to this conference, I
read much material, including some by Western experts. Even those who don’t
think positively about Russia admit that, despite our differences, the
“anti-terrorist formula” will not be effective without Russia. On the other
hand, they sometimes frame this conclusion in an overall correct, but slightly different
way, saying that a weak Russia is even more dangerous than a strong Russia.
Fourth, regional conflicts and
terrorism are closely related to the unprecedentedly large issue of
uncontrolled migration. This could be described as a great new transmigration
of peoples and the culmination of the numerous problems of modern global
development. It has affected not only Western Europe but also Russia. The
inflow of migrants from Syria to Russia is not very large, but the inflow of
migrants from Ukraine has become a serious problem. Over a million Ukrainian
refugees have entered Russia over the past 18 months.
Wars and related deprivations,
inequality, low standards of living, violence, and fanaticism force people to
flee their homes. Unsuccessful attempts to spread Western models of democracy
to a social environment that is not suited for this have resulted in the demise
of entire states and have turned huge territories into zones of hostility. I
remember how my colleagues once rejoiced at the so-called Arab Spring. I literally
witnessed it. But has modern democracy taken root in these countries? Looks
like it has, but in the form of ISIS.
Human capital is degenerating in the
countries the refugees are leaving. And these countries’ development prospects
have taken a downward turn. The ongoing migration crisis is rapidly acquiring
the features of a humanitarian catastrophe, at least in some parts of Europe.
Social problems are growing too, along with mutual intolerance and xenophobia.
Not to mention the fact that hundreds and thousands of extremists enter Europe
under the guise of being refugees. Other migrants are people of an absolutely
different culture who only want to receive monetary benefits without doing
anything to earn them. This poses a very real danger to the common economic
space. The next targets will be the cultural
space and even the European identity. We watch with regret how invaluable
mechanisms, which Russia also needs, are being destroyed. I am referring to the
actual collapse of the Schengen zone.
For our part, we are willing to do
our best to help address the migration issue, including by contributing to
efforts to normalise the situation in the conflict regions from which the
majority of refugees come, Syria among them.
And fifth, let’s be as honest as
possible. The majority of these challenges did not develop yesterday. And they
were definitely not invented in Russia. Yet we haven’t learned to react to
these challenges properly or even proactively.
This is why the bulk of resources go into dealing with the consequences, often
without identifying the root cause. Or we invest our energy not in fighting the
real evil, but in deterring our neighbours, and this problem has just been
voiced here The West continues to actively use this deterrence doctrine against
Russia. The fallacy of this approach is that we will still be debating the same
issues in 10 and even 20 years. Provided there will be anything to debate about,
of course, as discussions are not on the agenda of the Great Caliphate.
Opinions on the prospects for
cooperation with Russia differ. Opinions also differ in Russia. But can we
unite in order to stand up against the challenges I mentioned above? Yes, I am
confident that we can. Yesterday we witnessed a perfect example in the area of
religion. Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia and Pope of the Catholic
Church Francis met in Cuba following hundreds of years when the two churches did
not communicate. Of course, restoring trust is a challenging task. It’s
difficult to say how long it would take. But it is necessary to launch this
process. And this must be done without any preliminary conditions. Either all
of us need to do this or none of us. In the latter case, there will be no
cooperation.
We often differ in our assessments
of the events that took place over the past two years. However, I want to emphasise
that they don’t differ as much as they did 40 years ago when we signed the
Final Helsinki Act and when Europe was literally divided by The Wall. When old
phobias prevailed, we were deadlocked. When we managed to join forces, we
succeeded. There is much evidence to support this. We managed to agree on the
reduction of strategic offensive weapons, which was a breakthrough achievement.
We have worked out a compromise solution regarding Iran’s nuclear programme. We
have convinced all sides in the Syrian conflict to sit down at the negotiating
table in Geneva. We have coordinated actions against pirates. And the Climate
Change Conference was held in Paris last year. We should replicate these
positive outcomes.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The current architecture of European
security, which was built on the ruins of World War II, allowed us to avoid
global conflicts for more than 70 years. The reason for this was that this
architecture was built on principles that were clear to everyone at that time,
primarily the undeniable value of human life. We paid a high price for these
values. But our shared tragedy forced us to rise above our political and
ideological differences in the name of peace. It’s true that this security
system has its issues and that it sometimes malfunctions. But do we need one
more, third global tragedy to understand that what we need is cooperation
rather than confrontation?
I’d like to quote from John F.
Kennedy, who used very simple but the most appropriate words, “Domestic policy
can only defeat us; foreign policy can kill us.” In the early 1960s the world
stood at the door of a nuclear apocalypse, but the two rivalling powers found
the courage to admit that no political confrontation was worth the human lives.
I believe that we have become wiser
and more experienced and more responsible. And we are not divided by
ideological phantoms and stereotypes. I believe that the challenges we are
facing today will not lead to conflict but rather will encourage us to come
together in a fair and equal union that will allow us to maintain peace for
another 70 years, at least.
Thank you.
Excerpts
from replies to questions by journalists
Munich Security Conference
Question
(via interpreter)
My name is Mingus
Campbell, I am from the United Kingdom. My question is addressed to Prime
Minister Medvedev. Is it accepted in Russia that increased influence in Syria
brings with it responsibility for all of the citizens of Syria? And if that is
so, how has that responsibility been exercised in respect of the citizens of
Aleppo who are now fleeing in such numbers?
Dmitry Medvedev:
Thank you. I will continue
answering questions concerning Syria, including the situation in Aleppo, but
not limited to that.
I think a large part of the people present here have never been to
Syria, whereas I have been there. I made an official visit there when Syria was
a quiet, peaceful, secular nation, where life was stable and balanced for
everybody: the Sunnis and the Shiites, the Druze, Alawites and Christians.
Almost six years have passed since then. Today we see Syria that is torn
by a civil war. Let us ask a question: who is to blame for that? Is it al-Assad
alone? It is absolutely evident that without a certain external influence Syria
could have gone on with its life. But I remember those talks, those
conversations with my partners, both European and American, who kept on telling
me the same thing over and over: al-Assad is no good, he should step down, and
then peace and prosperity will reign there. And what has came of it? It
resulted in a civil war.
This is the reason I cannot but agree with my colleague, Prime
Minister Valls, in that we must join efforts to solve this issue, but we must
work effectively, not just watch as events unfold there, not just watch one
party attack another; not divide the warring parties into those who are on our
side and adversaries, but instead sit them all down at the negotiating table, except
those who we have agreed to treat as real terrorists. We know who they are.
Russia is not pursuing any special goals there except the ones that have
been declared. We are defending our national interests because a large number
of militants fighting there came from Russia and neighbouring countries, and
they can come back to wage terrorist attacks. They must stay there...
This does not apply to civilians in any way. Unlike most of the
countries present in the region, we have been helping civilians. Nobody has any
proof that we have been bombing civilian targets there, even though they keep
on talking about it, about wrong targets and so forth. They do not share
information. I have just said this from the stand – the military must keep in
constant contact. They should call each other a dozen times a day. Otherwise
there will always be skirmishes and conflicts. And this is our mission. We are
ready for such cooperation. I expect that we will see some positive development
from the dialogue we had here in terms of both achieving a ceasefire in Syria
and the humanitarian issues. It is crucial that we should agree on key points, because
otherwise, and I think it is no secret for anyone, Syria will split into
separate parts, the way it happened to Libya and the way it is in fact happening
with a number of other nations in the region. What does that entail? It poses a
threat of the conflict becoming permanent. The civil war will go on, Daesh or
its successors will always be there, while we will engage in arguments as we
try to figure out which of them is good and which is bad, who should receive
our support and who shouldn’t. We have a common enemy, and that it the premise we
should start with.
Now I would like to come back to the topic of Ukraine. I cannot assess
the past developments in Ukraine; the Russian leadership has already done this a
number of times, including myself. I will answer the part of the question
regarding the air crash investigation. Obviously, the Russian Federation is no
less interested in an unbiased investigation than the countries whose citizens lost
their lives in the crash. It is indeed an enormous tragedy. But even the tone
of the question implies that the person asking it has already decided who is
responsible, who should bear the legal responsibility, no investigation is
needed, certain justice committees should be set up instead and certain legal
procedures followed. But this is not the way it is done. This should be a
regular comprehensive investigation that would cover all the relevant aspects. This
is the first point. And second, this is unfortunately not the first case in the
world of this kind. Such tragedies have never been dealt with by criminal courts
or other similar agencies. These are issues of a different order. And this is
what we have to agree on. Russia is ready to provide any information to
contribute to a quality investigation.
<…>
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/21784/
Highlight selection