seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/23837/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/23837/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
11th ASEM Summit
15 July 2016
04:00
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
Dmitry Medvedev has spoken at the plenary session of the ASEM Summit, “Promoting ASEM partnership for greater connectivity”.
11th ASEM Summit
15 July 2016
11th ASEM Summit
15 July 2016
11th ASEM Summit
15 July 2016
11th ASEM Summit
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Xavier Bettel
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the President of the Swiss Confederation Johann Schneider-Ammann
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang
15 July 2016
A concert as part of the nomad festival Naadam
15 July 2016
A concert as part of the nomad festival Naadam
15 July 2016
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Mark Rutte
15 July 2016
Meeting with President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
16 July 2016
Conversation with President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman
16 July 2016
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
11th ASEM Summit
The Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) was formally
established at the first ASEM Summit in March 1996 in Bangkok, Thailand. ASEM currently
has 53 partners, including 31 European members (28 EU member states plus
Norway, Switzerland and the European Commission) and 22 Asian members (10 ASEAN
economies plus Australia, Bangladesh, China, Japan, India, Kazakhstan,
Mongolia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Russia, South Korea and the ASEAN
Secretariat).
Russia joined ASEM at the eighth summit in Brussels in
October 2010.
The Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) is an informal
interregional process of dialogue for cooperation that addresses political,
security, financial, economic, social and cultural issues.
The biennial ASEM summits of the heads of state and
government are held alternately in Asia and Europe.
Dmitry Medvedev’s
remarks at a plenary session of the 11
ASEM Summit:
11th ASEM Summit
Chairperson, colleagues. I would like to begin by offering condolences to
France over the horrible terrorist attack in Nice and to all the victims and
their families. Terrorism has no borders and is a common challenge for both
Europe and Asia. According to available information, 80 people, including
children and many tourists, have died in the attack. The media report that
there are EU and Russian citizens among the dead.
It is a mournful event, and all
of us must join forces to find common responses to such challenges as this one.
We must also demonstrate solidarity, and make every effort to fight terrorism. Force
is all terrorists and their sponsors understand, and that is what we must use.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev answers journalists’ questions following the 11th ASEM Summit
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman
Dmitry Medvedev’s meeting with President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Mark Rutte
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the President of the Swiss Confederation Johann Schneider-Ammann
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Xavier Bettel
Meeting with President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj
Meeting with Chairman of the State Great Hural of Mongolia Miyeegombyn Enkhbold
Meeting with Prime Minister of Mongolia Jargaltulga Erdenebat
I would like to express gratitude
to Mongolia for its hospitality and this well-organised event.
Russia is a unique country in
that it is located both in Europe and in Asia. ASEM is a perfect venue for
offering a common agenda. The geographic scope of this forum allows us to
implement the most ambitious projects and find additional sources for
individual growth and development in our cooperation. Therefore, we should use
the ASEM platform to develop common rules of conduct for Eurasia. The issue
concerns our common home and our common future. The tragedy that happened in
France today has shown that our home is fragile and that we need to work
together to create a new system of relations that would be in line with modern
realities.
What does this mean in practice? Experience
shows that regular contacts and closer cultural, trade and economic cooperation
is the best foundation for strengthening our interconnection. We firmly stand
for harmonising integration processes in the ASEM area, which includes Europe,
Asia and Asia Pacific. It is a fact that Europe has moved the farthest along
this path. Asian countries are also actively creating a system of free trade
agreements. Over a hundred such agreements have been signed, and it is obvious
that their number will further increase.
Working together with its
partners – Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, Russia has been
promoting an integration project called the Eurasian Economic Union. It is a
new market with standardised rules of competition and common duties, without trade
barriers and with good investment opportunities. And lastly, the EAEU’s
operation is fully in keeping with WTO principles.
There will be other regional
initiatives of this kind and they must not contradict international norms.
Their task is to complement rather than replace the international trade system.
However, integrational
associations are not enough anymore. The member states of the Eurasian Economic
Union are aware of this and are therefore open to cooperation with other
alliances. A year ago, we signed a free trade agreement with Vietnam, and now
we are holding consultations on preferential trade agreements with several, or
more precisely, several dozen other countries.
China is one of our leading
partners in this respect. We have launched talks on a trade and economic
agreement between the EAEU and China. We are also working to develop a broad
economic partnership based on the EAEU and China’s Silk Road Economic Belt
initiative.
This idea was supported by Southeast Asian
leaders at the ASEAN-Russia summit, which was held in Sochi two months ago. Moreover,
it has been decided that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, including its prospective
members – India and Pakistan – will join this project.
However, the effect of this cooperation would
have been larger had our EU partners joined in. I
am convinced that our future lies in a common economic space from the Atlantic
to the Pacific Ocean. We could begin by launching full-scale dialogue between
the Eurasian Economic Union and the EU. We hope for a positive consensus within
the EU on this issue. The sooner we start, the less time will be lost.
Considering the high importance
of these issues, we believe it would be wise to resume ASEM economic ministers’
meetings, which have not been held for 10 years, but first making every effort
to very carefully craft the agenda.
Economic interconnectivity will
not be effective without a reliable transport link. There is more to do in this
area that in any other area of ASEM cooperation. It includes the development of
the logistics of cargo transportation between Asia and Europe, cross-border
corridors and transit security.
As a country with a huge
territory, Russia has been working to plot the best possible Eurasian routes
and is modernising its railway system. We will continue doing this, and our
plans include creating a modern and convenient logistics hub in the Russian Far
East.
I hope we will benefit from this
project, if we coordinate our plans in advance.
Russia supports ASEM’s activities
in education. This year, for the first time, we will host the Summer University
of the Asia-Europe Foundation. Students and researchers from many countries
will meet in Vladivostok, Irkutsk and Chita, visiting Russian universities and
meeting with business and public leaders to establish contacts. I hope this
will promote the development of fruitful relations between our countries.
I would like to say that all of
us are satisfied with the results of the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris,
which successfully concluded negotiations that have lasted for many years. The
Paris Climate Change Agreement, which was signed in New York in April, covers
accords reached on this issue between developed and developing countries. Now
our common task is to formulate a package of decisions so that the Paris
Agreement can come into force in the near future. Russia plans to limit greenhouse
gases emissions to 70 percent of the baseline figure by 2030.
Colleagues, this summit also
marks 20 years since ASEM’s establishment. Over this period, ASEM has become
firmly established as a major regional forum. We possess considerable potential
for promoting cooperation between Europe and Asia. Russia intends to further
contribute to ASEM’s development. I am confident that the results of this
summit and the declarations that have been drafted, with due regard for the
latest tragic events, will have a positive impact on our cooperation.
Thank you.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/23837/
Highlight selection