seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/51713/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/51713/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Alexei Overchuk takes part in the Eurasian Economic Commission Council meeting
29 May 2024
22:45
The meeting’s agenda included items dealing with developing the EAEU’s legal framework, improving regulations for specific domains as part of integration processes and other matters within the council’s purview.
Alexei Overchuk takes part in the Eurasian Economic Commission Council meeting
Deputy Prime Minister Alexei
Overchuk took part in the Eurasian Economic Commission Council meeting. Deputy
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Mher Grigoryan chaired the event and congratulated its participants on EAEU Day. Observed on 29 May, it marked the 10th
anniversary of signing the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
The meeting’s agenda included
items dealing with developing the EAEU’s legal framework, improving regulations
for specific domains as part of integration processes and other matters within
the council’s purview.
In particular, the Eurasian
Economic Commission Council decided to approve a single indicative excise duty
on cigarettes in 2029 while also setting deviation limits for the actual excise
duties in EAEU member states compared to the indicative rate.
The participants also approved
amendments for the Rules of Registration and Expert Reviews of Medical Products
with the view to streamlining and improving administrative procedures while requiring
less paperwork from applicants seeking to register changes in their products.
This procedure aims to improve the availability of medical products to consumers within the EAEU market.
The agenda also included a commission report on developing a single risk management framework for customs
clearance operations. This effort provided for outlining further steps to identify the so-called tax-intensive goods. Competent bodies will have to set
minimal risk indicators for these goods in order to control their value for customs purposes. The commission will submit a decision on this matter to the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council.
The participants also exchanged
views on regulating the climate agenda within the EAEU and agreed to deal with
this matter at the level of prime ministers. The commission spoke out in favour
of aligning climate regulations in order to avoid any additional barriers
within the union’s common market.
The commission approved its
annual report on the state of competition in cross-border markets and the measures it took to cut short violations of the common rules governing
competition in 2023.
The participants also approved
the commission’s 2023 report titled “Creating and developing East-West and North-South transport infrastructure in EAEU member states, including by coordinating efforts with China’s Belt and Road Initiative.”
During the meeting, the participants
agreed on the draft agenda for the next meeting of the Eurasian
Intergovernmental Council.
Person:
Alexei Overchuk
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/51713/
Highlight selection