seed_url: http://special.government.ru/en/news/46350/
final_url: http://special.government.ru/en/news/46350/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Expanded meeting of Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
26 August 2022
09:30
The participants discussed topical matters related to achieving deeper integration within the EAEU, including efforts to create a shared natural gas market, industrial cooperation financing, promoting integration-oriented transport projects, and regulating the alcohol market.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at
the meeting
Signed documents
Delegation heads taking part in an expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan;
Heads of delegations participating in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
26 August 2022
Mikhail Mishustin at the expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council. Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Alexei Overchuk
26 August 2022
Mikhail Mishustin at the expanded meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
26 August 2022
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Heads of delegations participating in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Roman Golovchenko;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alikhan Smailov;
Chairman of the Cabinet of
Ministers, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office of the Kyrgyz
Republic and Chair of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council Akylbek Japarov;
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mikhail Mishustin;
Prime Minister of the Republic of Cuba Manuel Marrero Cruz (via video link-up);
Prime
Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Abdulla Aripov;
Prime
Minister of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ali Hidayat oglu Asadov;
Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Mikhail Myasnikovich.
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks at the meeting:
Japarov, colleagues.
would like to join those who have already thanked our colleagues in Kyrgyzstan
for their traditionally warm welcome and for the wonderful arrangements at this
event.
Let
me also convey my special welcome to Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Abdulla
Aripov and the special guest, Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Ali Asadov, as well
as representatives of observer states and our distinguished guests who are all
taking part in this meeting.
The
situation has been changing rapidly since the last time we met in Minsk. The
collective West has been building up its sanctions pressure on Russia and
Belarus, even though those who initiated this policy have already felt its
negative consequences. It has destabilised the international economy and trade,
disrupting the usual links and processes.
However,
the Eurasian Economic Union has proven its effectiveness, as demonstrated by
its key indicators. In the first quarter of 2022, the EAEU’s GDP increased 3.5
percent. In the first six months of the year, agricultural output has been
growing. Industrial output was up by almost 2 percent. Importantly, within our
union, unemployment declined by a third (34 percent) during this period.
The transition to national currencies in mutual
settlements is underway and has reached 75 percent. We urge our colleagues to adopt
our own international financial mechanisms as soon as possible.
In the current conditions it is crucial to maintain
the momentum and minimise the negative impact of sanctions on the member
states, and to ensure the wellbeing of our citizens.
To this end, it is necessary to jointly respond to new
challenges and threats. As President of Russia Vladimir Putin emphasised at a
meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in May, a closer integration
will allow our economies to become stronger and significantly reduce our
dependence on external conditions, including the political environment.
The range of measures aimed at improving the
sustainability of the economies of the EAEU member states serves this purpose
as well. It covers the four key areas: the customs, customs tariff and
non-tariff regulation, the domestic market and cooperation, financial and
foreign exchange markets, as well as international cooperation with third
countries and integration associations. It is important to continue the
consistent work to implement these measures.
Entrepreneurs require special attention. The decision
to reduce import customs duties to zero has allowed them to save significant
resources and use them for development, and also to provide uninterrupted
imports of priority goods that our people need.
There will be another mechanism to assist businesses;
we agreed on it yesterday and discussed it in detail. It is the Eurasian
Reinsurance Company; we have agreed to establish it. The organisation will
provide insurance support for mutual and foreign trade, boost the development
of investment cooperation and provide for export loans and interaction with
credit agencies and insurers.
Plans include issuing our own securities and funding
projects. I want to emphasise that the company is open to new international
partners.
Another goal is to strengthen industrial cooperation
and develop our own production facilities more actively. We also spoke about this
in detail yesterday.
The EAEU Industrialisation Map provides good
opportunities in this area. The map contains information about more than 150
investment projects; 27 of them have already been implemented in the
automobile, chemical, metal, medical, pulp and paper and other industries.
Thirteen of the projects are Russian. We are ready to supply our friends and
partners with contemporary and competitive goods manufactured as part of these
projects.
Let me say a few words about food
security. The Western states are trying to shift the blame for the global food
crisis onto our country. At the same time, they are well aware of the fact that
it is their actions which have caused the current situation. The illegitimate
sanctions against Russia have exacerbated the negative global trends.
International financial corporations, logistics companies and banks stopped
funding, insuring and servicing transactions to sell food and fertiliser coming
from Russia. Foreign port terminals have been blocked.
In this regard, the five EAEU
members have a clear advantage. We have reached a high level of
self-sufficiency in terms of the main agricultural products. The Eurasian
Economic Union is the world’s largest agricultural exporter, and we stand ready
to perform our obligations in full and on time.
During the May meeting of the
Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, President of Russia Vladimir Putin said that
Russia, as well as other EAEU members have been contributing in meaningful ways
to addressing the food security issue and have been acting with a sense of
utmost responsibility.
I am calling on my colleagues to
stay on course and to do everything to develop agriculture and protect our own producers.
Of course, we also need to move consistently towards establishing a common
agricultural market by making the appropriate decisions.
We need to inject more momentum
into ensuring the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. In the
first six months of this year, we removed five barriers, two obstacles and one
exemption, with about 50, or 48 to be more precise, to go.
In order to promote deeper trade
and economic cooperation within the EAEU and with our external partners, we
need to continue building a single transport space and fulfilling the union’s
transit potential.
In this regard, carrying out the
priority integration projects to develop transport infrastructure will be an
important step. This will help us develop the East-West and North-South
corridors, including as part of the effort to promote connectivity with the
Belt and Road Initiative.
Colleagues, over the past months
we have been paying a lot of attention to the union’s internal agenda. At the
same time, the EAEU has been stepping up its constructive dialogue with other
countries and organisations.
We believe expanding ties with
our partners in the Commonwealth of Independent States to be a major priority.
These are our closest neighbours, friends, and allies. Considering the
adjustment of logistics chains and routes, we stand for promoting constructive
cooperation with countries in the Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Latin America
and Africa. It is important that in doing so we rely on the experience we have
in working with China, Egypt, India, and Iran, as well as regional
associations, such as the SCO and ASEAN.
I am certain that this approach will
create the necessary conditions for promoting our goods on the global markets,
and will reinforce the Eurasian Economic Union’s standing on the international
stage.
Colleagues,
The trust and mutual respect that
bind together the five EAEU countries have enabled us to be effective in our
joint efforts when addressing the most challenging issues even against the
backdrop of unprecedented sanctions and restrictions.
Importantly, our people support
integration, as confirmed by the interest in the CIS and EAEU Youth Forum,
which is held for the first time here, in Kyrgyzstan, these days. I strongly
believe that it will emerge as a major platform for bringing together proactive
young people from our countries. They are the ones who can offer a fresh
perspective on integration, and offer new ideas and approaches. This is what
all associations need in order to accelerate their development and become
stronger. We stand ready to support initiatives of this kind.
Documents
signed following the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council:
Directive on “Financing industrial cooperation in the Eurasian Economic Union”
Instruction on “Drafting the agreement on alcohol market regulation within the
Eurasian Economic Union”
Instruction on “Drafting the protocol on amendments to the Treaty on the
Eurasian Economic Union dated 29 May 2014 regarding the procedure for
collecting indirect taxes on the online sales of goods to individuals”
Statement on the “Draft agreement establishing the Eurasian Reinsurance Company”
Instruction on “Drafting an agreement establishing the Eurasian Reinsurance Company”
Directive on the “List of priority integration projects for transport
infrastructure in the Eurasian Economic Union member states”
Directive on “Further efforts to expand the use of national currencies of the
Eurasian Economic Union member states when performing settlements in mutual
trade”
Directive on “The time and place of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council
meeting”
Directive on “Submitting a candidate for membership of the Council of the
Eurasian Economic Commission to the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council”
Directive on “Submitting a candidate for membership of the Board of the
Eurasian Economic Commission to the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.”
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://special.government.ru/en/news/46350/
Highlight selection