seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/29986/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/all/29986/
title: All materials
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
1 November 2017
13:00
Beijing, People's Republic of China
Dmitry Medvedev’s statement at
the meeting:
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping
1 November 2017
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping
1 November 2017
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping
Mr President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping,
Colleagues,
First of all, I would like to pass
on the greetings and best wishes from President of Russia Vladimir Putin. We,
of course, watched attentively the 19
National Congress of the
Communist Party of China, which took strategic decisions for the upcoming
decades. We sincerely congratulate you on its conclusion.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev lays a wreath at the Monument to the People's Heroes in Beijing
Dmitry Medvedev's online news conference in Beijing
Dmitry Medvedev’s talks with Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang
Dmitry Medvedev bestows Russian state awards on Chinese citizens
22nd regular meeting of Russian and Chinese heads of government
Dmitry Medvedev and Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang attend the closing ceremony for the years of Russian and Chinese media
Dmitry Medvedev meets with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People’s Republic of China Zhang Dejiang
We wish you and all our
Chinese friends every success in the implementation of the approved strategy on
building a socialist society with Chinese characteristics in the new era.
We understand how important
these decisions are for the development of friendly China and we hope that our
partnership, multidimensional and strategic interaction will become even more
functional because of these decisions. At any rate, we are ready for that.
As you said, we met in last July
during your visit to Moscow, which also went very well. Today in Beijing we
held the 22
meeting of heads of government. It is an efficient
mechanism that covers almost all areas of our cooperation: the economy,
investment, innovations, major energy projects, culture, and of course, the
realisation of the leading idea of our cooperation, the synergy of interaction
as part of the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union.
Decisions have been made and
important documents signed in all these areas, so we are very pleased with
today’s results.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/all/29986/
Highlight selection