seed_url: http://www.en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/60378
final_url: http://www.en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/60378
title: Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
date: 2019-04-26
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Events
Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
Vladimir
Putin attended the second
Belt and Road
Forum for International Cooperation
April 26, 2019
06:30
Beijing
Vladimir Putin spoke at the opening
ceremony of the forum business program.
The
Belt and Road
Forum takes place in Beijing on April 25–27.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin:
President Xi Jinping, Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank
my good friend President of China Xi Jinping for inviting me to attend the second
Belt and Road
Forum for International
Cooperation.
I would
like to express my appreciation for the opportunity to be here in such a large
representative group and to meet with each other, to discuss current issues of global
development and principles of cooperation.
I have listened with great interest – as I am sure many other people in this hall have – about the principles and goals of China’s development, that is, how the People’s Republic of China, the world’s largest economy today in terms of purchasing power parity, is planning to develop and build relationships with its partners.
This is of fundamental importance both
for Russia and, I am sure, for many of our colleagues who have gathered here in Beijing today.
It is obvious that the implementation of this ambitious project,
Belt
and Road
, promoted by our Chinese colleagues, is aimed at strengthening the constructive cooperation of the Eurasian states.
Its truly unifying goal is to ensure
harmonious and sustainable economic development and economic growth throughout
the Eurasian space.
Russia has emphasised on numerous
occasions that PRC President’s
Belt and Road
initiative rimes with Russia’s idea to establish a Greater Eurasian Partnership,
a project designed to ‘integrate integration frameworks’, and therefore to promote a closer alignment of various bilateral and multilateral integration
processes that are currently underway in Eurasia.
Russia is ready to undertake efforts
for creating a transparent and enabling environment in order to promote
cooperation across Eurasia.
It is important that we come up with
effective ways of responding to the risks of a fragmented global political,
economic and technological landscape and growing protectionism, with
illegitimate unilateral restrictions imposed bypassing the UN Security Council
or, even worse, trade wars as its most dangerous expressions.
It is our firm belief that only by working together can we counter urgent challenges such as decelerating economic
growth, the deepening prosperity gap among nations as well as technological
backwardness.
Let me repeat what I have said on numerous occasions: these negative trends feed terrorism, extremism and illegal
migration flows, causing old regional conflicts to resurface and new ones to emerge.
I strongly believe that Eurasia can
become a role model in devising a meaningful and positive agenda for overcoming
these and other urgent international problems.
Peoples of various cultures,
religions and traditions have inhabited the vast Eurasian space for millennia.
Of course, there were wars and conflicts throughout the continent’s history, but sooner or later they
subsided, while common sense and the natural aspiration of the people to peace
and communication always triumphed at the end of the day.
Russia is interested in the closest
cooperation with all Eurasian partners on the basis of unshakable principles of respect for the sovereignty, rights and legitimate interests of each state. It
is on these principles that we are building the Eurasian Economic Union, with
our partners – Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan.
Soon, on May 29, the EAEU will have
been in existence for five years. Over this period, a common market has been
created, and conditions are being created to ensure the free movement of goods,
services, capital and labour. Common markets have been formed, as well as a common digital space.
In his remarks just now, President Xi
Jinping spoke about linking his initiatives with similar ones and with other associations
that are forming in our vast space. This absolutely fits into our plans.
The EAEU states are actively working
to strengthen industrial and technological cooperation, to build efficient
transport and logistics chains.
And we, too, together with our
Chinese friends, with all our partners, will talk more during our meetings
today and tomorrow, we will continue coordinating this work, work of a global
nature.
We also continue pursuing the policy
of harmonising our monetary and fiscal policies.
At the same time, the Eurasian
Economic Union strives for the widest possible cooperation with all interested
countries and associations.
I am primarily referring to the People’s Republic of China, the country we consider to be our key supporter, our
natural partner in the integrated development of the continent.
The five EAEU member states have unanimously
supported the idea of pairing the EAEU development and the Chinese Silk Road
Economic Belt project. The agreements reached in this regard are being
successfully implemented. In the coming months, the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the EAEU and China will enter into force.
The Eurasian Union is committed to liberalising economic ties with its other partners as well, and has already
signed a free trade agreement with Vietnam and a provisional agreement with
Iran paving the way to the creation of a free trade area. The preparation of similar instruments with Singapore and Serbia is nearing completion, and talks
are underway with Israel, Egypt and India.
We cooperate actively with the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations.
We undoubtedly stand for expanding
business ties with the European Union, our long-standing and traditional
partner, in a constructive and equitable manner. Even if there are currently
some differences between us, they cannot and should not cast a shadow on our shared
responsibility for the future of Europe and all of Eurasia.
Let me emphasise that the Great
Eurasian Partnership and
Belt and Road
concepts are both rooted in the principles and values that everyone
understands: the natural aspiration of nations to live in peace and harmony,
benefit from free access to the latest scientific achievements and innovative
development, while preserving their culture and unique spiritual identity. In other words, we are united by our strategic, long-term interests.
I strongly believe that the comprehensive
approach that underpins both concepts will help us further enhance economic
cooperation within the continent, develop shared transport and energy
infrastructure and promote digital technology. This way, integration will serve
the interests of our peoples and all Eurasian nations to the fullest extent.
Once again, I would like to thank
our partners, our Chinese friends for this initiative. Thank you for your
attention.
Thank you very much.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections:
Transcripts
Publication date:
April 26, 2019, 06:30
Direct link:
en.kremlin.ru/d/60378
Text version