seed_url: http://government.ru/en/all/34600/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/21123/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
The 20th regular meeting between the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments
17 December 2015
12:10
Beijing, People’s Republic of China
Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev met with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang as part of the 20th regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government. The sides signed a series of documents and made statements for the press.
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
Dmitry Medvedev’s speech
The signing of joint documents
Dmitry Medvedev’s statement for the press
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
17 December 2015
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
17 December 2015
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Dmitry Medvedev’s conversation with Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang, Premier of the State
Council of the People's Republic of China, met prior to the 20
regular meeting of the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments.
***
From Dmitry Medvedev’s
speech:
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, during a welcome ceremony for the Russian Prime Minister
17 December 2015
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, during a welcome ceremony for the Russian Prime Minister
17 December 2015
The 20th regular meeting between the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments
17 December 2015
The 20th regular meeting between the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments
17 December 2015
The 20th regular meeting between the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments
17 December 2015
The signing of joint documents
17 December 2015
The signing of joint documents
17 December 2015
The signing of joint documents
17 December 2015
Press statements by Li Keqiang and Dmitry Medvedev
17 December 2015
Press statements by Li Keqiang and Dmitry Medvedev
17 December 2015
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Dmitry Medvedev and Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, during a welcome ceremony for the Russian Prime Minister
Today we are holding the 20th anniversary meeting
between the governments of Russia and China. This unique, effective mechanism
of regular annual sessions is almost 20 years old. Each of these meetings results
in the signing of documents. Our last meeting in Moscow was quite successful:
we signed about 40 agreements. Likewise, today, we will plan to conclude this
meeting with the signing of many new joint documents.
I totally support what Mr Li Keqiang said about the
need to react to the current economic environment and to the weakness and
volatility of markets. We need to find new solutions and directions for
cooperation, including in dealing with a number of challenges that our
countries and economies are facing.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev’s visit to the People’s Republic of China
We have an ambitious goal, which we have set and are striving
to achieve: to increase trade volume between our two countries to $200 billion
by 2020.
It is vital that we continue along the path of
collaboration that we have designated for ourselves. We have a working
mechanism for preparing for meetings of the heads of government. This particular
meeting was prepared by the deputy prime ministers, representatives of the Premier
of the State Council, and ministers.
***
The signing of joint documents
Following the
20th regular meeting between the heads of the Russian and Chinese governments,
the parties signed the following documents:
A Joint
Communique on the results of the 20th regular meeting between the heads of the
Russian and Chinese governments;
Minutes of the
2nd meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Investment Cooperation;
Minutes of the
12th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission on Energy
Cooperation;
Minutes of the
16th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Cultural Cooperation;
Minutes of the
19th meeting of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Preparing Regular Meetings
between Heads of Government;
Protocol to the
Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government
of the People’s Republic of China on the Establishment and Organisation of a
Mechanism for Regular Meetings between the Heads of the Governments of Russia
and China of 27 June 1997;
Protocol to the
Agreement between the Governments of the Russian Federation and the People’s
Republic of China on Cooperation in the Implementation of the Yamal LNG
Project;
Agreement
between the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of
Transport of the People’s Republic of China on Temporary Transportation of
Cargo by Automobile Transport between the Territories of the Russian Federation
and the People’s Republic of China via the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Protocol between
Russia’s Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision and China’s
General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine on the
Phytosanitary Requirements for Wheat Exported from the Russian Federation to
the People’s Republic of China;
Protocol between Russia’s
Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision and China’s
General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine on the
Phytosanitary Requirements for Corn, Rice, Soy and Rapeseed Exported from the
Russian Federation to the People’s Republic of China;
Memorandum of Understanding
between Russia’s Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of Industry and
Trade and the People’s Republic of China’s Ministry of Commerce and the
People’s Government of the Heilongjiang Province on the Preparations and
Holding of the Russian-Chinese EXPO;
Memorandum of Understanding
between the Russian Federation’s Ministry of Economic Development and the
People’s Republic of China’s Ministry of Commerce on Stimulating Bilateral
Trade;
Memorandum of Understanding
and Cooperation between the Russian Federation’s Ministry of Finance and the
People’s Republic of China’s Ministry of Finance;
Protocol between the Russian
Federation’s Ministry of Education and Science, the People’s Republic of
China’s Ministry of Science and Technology, the People’s Republic of China’s
Academy of Sciences and the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR) on the
Prospects of Cooperation on the Complex of Superconducting Rings in Colliding
Heavy Ion Beams;
Memorandum of Understanding
between the Russian Federation’s Ministry of Culture and the People’s Republic
of China’s Ministry of Education on Cultural Cooperation in Education and
Science;
Memorandum of Understanding
between The Russian Federation’s Ministry for the Development of the Far East
and the People’s Republic of China’s State Committee for the Development and
Reform to Strengthen Russian-Chinese Regional, Industrial and Investment
Cooperation in the Far East;
Memorandum between the Russian
Federation’s Federal Customs Service and the People’s Republic of China’s Main
Customs Directorate on Cooperation in Personnel Training;
Memorandum of Understanding
between the Russian Federation’s Federal Service for Supervision of Healthcare
and the People’s Republic of China’s Food and Drug Administration;
Joint Statement on Cooperation
in Using Navigation Technologies, GLONASS and BeiDou Satellite Systems for
Peaceful Purposes;
Cooperation Agreement between
Russia’s Roscosmos State Space Corporation and the China National Space
Administration in the Area of Electronic Components for Space Equipment;
Action Plan for the
Russian-Chinese Committee for Friendship, Peace and Development for 2016;
Memorandum on Strategic Partnership
between Russia’s Federal Agency for the Commonwealth of Independent States, Compatriots
Living Abroad, and International Cultural Cooperation and Chinese People's
Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries;
Memorandum of Understanding
between Russia’s Federal Agency for Tourism and Union Pay International
(People’s Republic of China);
Agreement on Project Planning
and Construction between Gazprom and China National Petroleum Corporation;
Memorandum of Understanding
between Gazprom Neft and China National Petroleum Corporation;
Cooperation Agreement between
Radio Sibir Holding and China Radio International;
Agreement on Strategic
Cooperation between Rusnano and the China Aerospace Science & Industry
Corporation;
Purchase agreement for 9.9
percent of shares of Yamal LNG between NOVATEK and China’s Silk Road Fund;
Commercial agreement between
Russia’s Vnesheconombank and the China Development Bank for up to 10 billion for up to 5
years;
Cooperation Agreement between
the Russian Direct Investment Fund, Vnesheconombank and the Chinese Eurasian
Fund of Economic Cooperation on Investment in Priority Economic Sectors of
Russia and China;
Cooperation Agreement between
Russia’s Rostech State Corporation and the China North Industries Corporation
NORINCO;
Agreement on Strategic
Cooperation between Russia’s Rostech State Corporation and the China South
Industries Group Corporation (CSGC);
Cooperation Agreement between
Russia’s Vi Holding investment and industrial group and China’s aluminum
producing company Zhongfu Industrial in Relation to the Measures to Complete
the Joint Russian-Chinese Investment Project of Construction and  Launch of High-Tech Rolling Production in the
Innovative Territorial Cluster of Gongyi, Henan Province;
Agreement on Strategic
Cooperation in the Development of an I-Teco Center of Cloud Computing and Data
Processing between I-Teco, Chinese Eurasian Fund of Economic Cooperation and Huawei;
Memorandum of Understanding
between Russia’s Rosneft and the China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec
Group) on Cooperation in Petrochemical and Gas Projects in Eastern Siberia.
***
Dmitry Medvedev’s statement
for the press
Press statements by Li Keqiang and Dmitry Medvedev
Dear colleague, Premier of the State Council of the
People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang! Dear media representatives! Let me sum
up the results of our work. We have just held a session of our 20
regular meeting of the Russian and Chinese heads of government. The results
indicate that our bilateral relations have reached a special level, developing into
a strategic partnership of cooperation, which has permeated the work of our
governments over this past year.
Our
governments have been meeting for 20 years to outline plans for the future and
draft working documents.
But, frankly speaking, only in recent years have these
meetings started to bear visible results for our economies and, consequently,
for the people living in China and Russia. I remember very well this time — in
fact it was quite recently some 10, maybe 12 years ago — when our trade volume
was significantly less than it is now.
Investment cooperation was also rather underdeveloped,
despite the fact that our political relations were quite good and we
coordinated many foreign policy issues. Only in recent years have we managed to make a qualitative leap forward. Our
governments are engaged in a very intensive dialogue, all colleagues
communicate regularly, as we just discussed with Mr Li Keqiang, including
constant contact at the level of deputy prime ministers, the Government, the
State Council, and ministers.
This explains the fact that we have witnessed the
signing of 33 documents. Last year in Moscow, we also signed about 40
documents. As was rightly said here, it is not only the results of existing
cooperation, but also plans for the future, the potential of our relations, and
the opportunities that we can turn into a reality.
My colleague is absolutely right saying that the state
of the global economy and the situation in world markets, at least for our countries,
is not the most favourable right now. This is also true with regard to our
economies. It is therefore even more important to find areas of cooperation,
create new investment projects, and increase trade. While it is growing in
terms of volume and everything works quite well, it has been falling in value
terms, meaning that we need to find new niches and in some areas just increase
volumes. This is also possible.
In fact, today for the first time, perhaps, we have
taken a step in a very important direction to develop cooperation in
agriculture. China is the most populous country on the planet and Russia is the
world’s largest country with 10 percent of the world reserves of arable land.
If we combine this potential, we will achieve a completely new situation. We
have agreed to do this and signed a number of agreements to build our relations
in this area.
are talking about Russian oil supplies to China, which have increased in
volume, as we noted, and the project related to gas issues. We are building our
pipeline to China along the eastern route, talks and discussions are underway
regarding the western route, so all of these areas remain. There are some new
projects related to new forms of energy and the development of new markets,
including the Yamal LNG project, which has already been mentioned today.
There
are quite a few major breakthrough ideas, which can also be converted into
achievements and agreements. We communicate and have made good progress on
cooperation in the nuclear field. Here, too, there are different areas that we
discussed today. We have agreed with my colleague that future agreements should
be formed taking into account mutual interests, based on so-called
comprehensive package approaches to tackling issues.
fully support this approach. Our companies, present here today, are continuing
their contacts. It is very important that there are such forms of communication
as the Expo. Next
year,
the Expo
will be
held in
Russia.
And it is definitely crucial that contacts between
business communities, between business environments should not be confined to
the framework of big business, it is important to develop contacts between
medium and small businesses.
Our chambers of commerce and business communities
should work to this end to make those contacts as diverse as possible.
We have been stepping up our relations in the
humanitarian area. Starting in 2006, we have made unrivalled steps in this
direction. Practically each year has been marked by a most significant topic.
These are cross years of Russia in China and China in Russia, the years
dedicated to the Russian and Chinese languages, the years of youth exchanges.
The next year will be dedicated to mass media. Let’s put it frankly, the
Russian Federation does not have cultural relations that far advanced with any
other country but the People’s Republic of China.
I have conversed with bachelor and PhD students who
study Russian. I can’t deny the conversations gave me a lot of pleasure. They
are deeply committed people who have a fundamental knowledge of Russian
literature. I have experienced a lot of positive emotions, at least for myself,
and I hope they have as well.
I and my Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang chaired a
meeting of the head of governments of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I
would also like to express my gratitude for the brilliant preparation of the
event. We have confirmed the proximity of our views regarding the prospects of
global and regional economic development. The plans that were outlined are also
wide range. We shall move in that direction, but we will do this taking into
account the underlying realities, including such a comprehensive basic idea as
the creation of a free trade zone within the SCO. All of this is aimed at
making the functioning of our economies, and consequently, the life of our
peoples, more stable and predictable.
I enjoyed
participating in the 2
World Internet Conference in Wuzhen. The
conference is unrivalled in itself, as it helps to raise international
information security. I hope the outcome of the conference will be taken into
account not just by Russia and China but also other nations and public
structures that ensure the operation of this social system, which is important
for society.
I would like to sincerely thank our Chinese friends
and personally Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People's
Republic of China, for the hospitality and the opportunity to see Zhengzhou,
Hanzhou and Wuzhen, cities rich in history and modern achievements. It was very
interesting, thank you very much for that. In turn, I invite Mr Li Keqiang to
visit the Russian Federation for the next meeting of our countries’ governments
in 2016. Thank you.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/21123/
Highlight selection