seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/30366/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/16122/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government
15 December 2014
10:00
Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan
Dmitry Medvedev: “Russia attaches great importance to strengthening the economic cooperation between our countries. The key objective in this respect is to ensure that the programme for multilateral trade and economic cooperation until 2020 and the initiatives aimed at promoting project implementation until 2016 are results-driven.”
Excerpts from Dmitry Medvedev’s remarks:
The official portrait ceremony of the heads of government of SCO member states
15 December 2014
Meeting between President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan and the Heads of Government of the SCO Member States
15 December 2014
Meeting between President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan and the Heads of Government of the SCO Member States
15 December 2014
Expanded meeting of the SCO Council of the Heads of Government
15 December 2014
Group photo of SCO Council of Heads of Government and Heads of the Delegations of the SCO Observer States
15 December 2014
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
The official portrait ceremony of the heads of government of SCO member states
Our meeting is
taking place amid a growing crisis in the global economy. There are problems
related to politics, there are problems concerning security, including in our
region. The entire SCO security space is facing this challenge. We need to
develop joint efforts for further cooperation in all areas – economy, security,
and, of course, to maintain the overall socioeconomic stability in our
countries.
Russia will preside over the Shanghai Cooperation
Organisation during the next year and attaches great importance to
strengthening the economic cooperation between our countries through a new
quality of project activity within the Organisation.
The key objective in this respect is to ensure that
the programme for multilateral trade and economic cooperation until 2020 and
the initiatives aimed at promoting project implementation until 2016 are
results-driven. They should be revised in accordance with actual needs and the
actual situation. Certainly, the business community, including the SCO Business
Council and the SCO Interbank Consortium, could also contribute to this
process.
We are planning to hold the Business
Summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in June 2015 as part of the
annual St Petersburg International Economic Forum. I hope that a package of concrete
proposals will also be formulated after the forum.
SCO projects should be backed by financial
tools that we need to create. This is an essential condition for successful
project implementation. Therefore the countries concerned should complete their
consultations on establishing this mechanism in the near future. They should
decide on the format and on an agency serving as the foundation for this work.
Regardless of whether this is the Eurasian Development Bank or some new agency,
we need to make this decision.
The creation of a common transport space
is another promising aspect of our joint work. I believe that the agreement on
international road haulage, signed in September 2014, will increase the interconnectivity
of SCO countries. Next, we’ll implement a programme for the coordinated
development of roads, now being assessed by the agencies of SCO counties.
Our partners are also currently reviewing
several documents in the area of information and telecommunications technology.
One of them stipulates reduced prices and rates for roaming services, and the
second document deals with data exchanges for verifying electronic signatures.
The Energy Club is facing new
opportunities, with due consideration for current price fluctuations on global commodity
markets, primarily oil and gas. We should more actively use this platform for
reviewing energy security issues and for merging the stances of all market
participants. From the very outset, we should, of course, focus on modern and
mutually beneficial contracts in this area.
Expanded contacts with multilateral
organisations and forums, including the APEC economies and ASEAN, will help
strengthen our organisation. I hope that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
will obtain additional dividends by establishing cooperation with the Eurasian
Economic Union that will start functioning in 2015.
The future of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organisation is inseparably linked with expanded contacts between individuals
and with youth projects. We have implemented the successful Shanghai
Cooperation Organisation University project uniting almost 70 education
institutions. We expect to sign an intergovernmental agreement on establishing
a SCO University next year.
We should expand cooperation in the area
of healthcare in order to prevent the most dangerous diseases, such as the
Ebola virus. I am urging you to more actively implement the programme for
distributing information about the epidemiological status caused by infectious
diseases, in SCO countries.
Russia
will do its outmost to achieve the goals of our organisation during its
presidency.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/16122/
Highlight selection