seed_url: http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/60344
final_url: http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/60344
title: Interview to Chinese newspaper People’s Daily
date: 2019-04-25
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Events
Interview to Chinese newspaper People’s Daily
Ahead of his working visit to China,
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to the Chinese newspaper People’s Daily
(Renmin Ribao)
April 25, 2019
01:00
Question
: In 2017 you attended the Belt and Road international forum. Could you
share with us your impressions? What successes were achieved in the past two
years in your opinion? And what are the areas we still have to work on? What
topics are you interested in at the second forum?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin:
In historical terms, the two years
that have passed since the first Belt
and Road international forum in Beijing are a short span of time.
However, it is already clear that President Xi Jinping’s initiative is really
opening up extensive opportunities for equitable partnership. Our Chinese
friends take a creative approach to promoting international economic
cooperation, and seek to contribute to consolidating interconnected
relationships and ensuring sustainable development in the whole of Eurasia.
Such a desire can only be welcomed.
Naturally, it is
important for China to successfully promote this large-scale project. And all
Eurasian states should stand to gain from participation in it. It should help
them build up their economic potential, make them more competitive and increase
their living standards. To achieve this it is necessary to take into account
the interests of all partners and to promote the harmonisation of national
programmes and development plans. It is necessary not only to trade but also to promote mutual investment and carry out joint infrastructure, transport,
logistics and environmental projects; to encourage industrial and technological
cooperation, scientific and academic exchanges, and step up people-to-people
contacts.
Russia also has its own vision for the future of regional integration. Together with other member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) we are consistently searching for the optimal
model of cooperation. I am referring to the plans to form the Greater Eurasian
Partnership or, in other words, a broad network of regional integration
associations developing in a coordinated way, based on the principles of equality, openness, mutual respect and consideration of each other’s interests.
It is hard to overstate China’s role in this as Russia’s strategic partner.
After all, the formation of Greater Eurasia essentially amounts to coupling the EAEU and the Belt and Road concept.
Question
: You suggested coupling the EAEU with the Belt
and Road initiative. Are you satisfied with the progress toward linking these
two projects? What are your expectations in this regard?
Vladimir Putin
: Indeed, in May 2015, President Xi Jinping and I agreed to link the construction of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Silk
Road Economic Belt. This truly historic initiative was supported by the leaders
of all the EAEU member states.
On May 17, 2018, the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the EAEU and China was
signed as a follow-up to this initiative. We expect this document to enter into
force within the next few months, and the parties will immediately begin to implement it.
Practical cooperation
between the Eurasian Economic Commission and the Government of the People's
Republic of China will need to be put on solid footing and made systematic. Our
top priority will be to set up a Joint Commission tasked with reviewing
specific initiatives to couple the EAEU with China’s Belt and Road initiative.
We believe that projects in transport, energy, environment, trade, finance and the digital economy will enjoy priority.
I am confident that
following the upcoming 2
Belt and Road Forum for International
Cooperation in Beijing, in which I plan to take part, the integration processes
promoted by our countries in the Eurasian space will receive another powerful
boost.
Question
: You have met with President Xi Jinping many
times and, as leaders, have mapped out important plans to develop Russian-Chinese relations. What is the role of meetings
between the leaders in promoting bilateral relations?
Vladimir Putin
: You correctly noted that I regularly meet
with President Xi Jinping. I value the relations of friendship and mutual
respect that have developed between us, which make it possible to build on bilateral cooperation in all areas from politics and trade to military-technical and humanitarian areas.
Of course, that kind
of trust-based dialogue helps more effectively coordinate the positions of Russia and China on key issues of the international and regional agenda and jointly develop responses to the most pressing challenges of our time.
As I noted earlier, our next meeting
will take place in Beijing quite soon. We will talk not only during the Belt
and Road Forum, which I already mentioned, but will also hold talks as part of the bilateral meeting of the leaders of Russia and China. And we look forward
to President Xi Jinping’s visit to Russia this year.
Question
: This year we mark the 70
anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Russia. What do you think
about the level of our relations and the potential for their further
development?
Vladimir Putin
: It would be no exaggeration to say that our
countries have approached this anniversary with relations the best they have
been in their entire history. This is the result of meticulous and successful
work over the past thirty years. Russia and China have fully normalised
bilateral ties and raised them to the level of strategic partnership. They have
resolved all sensitive issues, including the border one.
The further deepening
of cooperation between the two states promises to be sustainable and long-term,
because it is not opportunistic. This is entirely in the interests of our
peoples and the tasks of maintaining international and regional security and stability.
The political
dialogue between Russia and China is based on mutual trust and respect, and the fact that we always take each other’s approaches and positions into
consideration. We have developed contacts at all levels – from the very top to the expert level. Our parliaments, public organisations and, of course,
business communities are actively engaged in our common efforts.
Our military and military-technical cooperation points to the high level of trust. Russia and China hold regular joint exercises and share our accumulated experience in military
development. Our cooperation on security and combatting terrorism and organised
crime is making rapid headway.
We have managed to substantially increase our mutual trade. In 2018 it exceeded a record $100
billion. We are making consistent progress in investment, financial, energy and high-tech cooperation.
Importantly, ties
between the regions of Russia and China are expanding. The current cross years
of interregional cooperation will give an additional boost to these efforts.
We are paying significant
attention to expanding people-to-people exchanges. Many projects have been
carried out under the cross years. And, of course, “people’s diplomacy,” direct
contacts between our citizens, young people, play a big role in strengthening
the foundation of bilateral relations.
I am convinced that the potential of the Russia-China partnership is truly inexhaustible. Naturally, the forthcoming
celebration of the 70
anniversary of diplomatic relations will
further reveal this potential and deepen our friendly, mutually beneficial
dialogue in all areas.
Question
: China and Russia are two major modern powers.
In what way, do you think, can Beijing and Moscow do more to exert a positive
influence in order to overcome acute international challenges and maintain an equitable and fair world order?
Vladimir Putin
: Russia-China foreign policy interaction is an important stabilising factor in international affairs, all the more so as our
countries have overlapping or very close positions on the key issues of our time.
Unfortunately, some
Western countries are claiming sole global leadership. They carelessly trample
on the norms and principles of international law, resort to blackmail,
sanctions and pressure, and try to force their values ​​and dubious ideals on entire countries and populations.
We are categorically
opposed to such approaches. In order to improve the international situation and to form a more equitable and democratic global architecture, we will continue
to closely coordinate Russia and China’s steps on important global and regional
issues, and productively cooperate at leading multilateral venues such as the UN, G20, SCO, BRICS and APEC. At the same time, we remain open to cooperation
and joint work with like-minded people, including everyone who is interested in promoting state-to-state communication on the unshakable foundation of the UN
Charter and international law.
Question
: The greatest number of tourists come to Russia from China. In addition to Moscow and St Petersburg, what other interesting
destinations would you recommend that Chinese tourists see?
Vladimir Putin
: Indeed, Chinese tourists are clearly in the lead among foreign tourists coming to Russia. Over the past five years, their
number has almost doubled, increasing by 93 percent. Last year alone, about
1,700,000 Chinese tourists visited our country. It is our sincere pleasure to have them as guests.
Moscow and St
Petersburg remain Chinese tourists’ favourite destinations. However, they want
to see other Russian regions as well, including the famous Golden Ring in central Russia, the Urals and Siberia, the Russian Far East and the Caucasus.
For example, more and more guests from China are going to Sochi, which,
following the successful 2014 Winter Olympics, now boasts high-quality resort
and sports infrastructure.
Russia is home to 29
sites included on UNESCO’s World Heritage Site list. This number puts Russia in the top 10 countries in the world. These sites include the cultural and historical ensembles of Novgorod, Sergiyev Posad, Kazan, Yaroslavl, Derbent,
the white stone temples of Vladimir and Suzdal, Sviyazhsk, Kizhi Pogost, the Solovki historical and cultural complex and other works by our architects.
Nature has generously
endowed Russia with gems such as the world’s deepest and cleanest lake, Baikal,
the volcanoes and geysers of Kamchatka, the Golden Mountains of Altai, the forests of the Komi Republic, the Curonian Spit, Central Sikhote-Alin, the nature of Wrangel Island, the Lena River Pillars and the Putorana Plateau.
Visiting memorable
sites connected with the history of the revolutionary movement and the lives of Soviet party and state leaders is another area of interest for Chinese
tourists.
A region unlike any
other, Crimea deserves special mention. In recent years, the tourism industry
has been rapidly expanding on the peninsula. Extensive infrastructure is being
created and new modern hotels and resorts are being built. All this, combined
with the unfailing cordiality and hospitality of the locals, creates excellent
opportunities for exciting and rewarding trips.
I will say it again for emphasis: we
have plenty of places to see and enjoy, and I want to say once again to all our
guests from the friendly nation of China – welcome to Russia!
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections:
Transcripts
Publication date:
April 25, 2019, 01:00
Direct link:
en.kremlin.ru/d/60344
Text version