seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/40979/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/40979/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Meeting of the SCO Heads of Government Council
30 November 2020
12:40
Mikhail Mishustin took part in a meeting of the Heads of Government Council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation via videoconference.
Heads of delegations of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member
states:
Vice President
of the Republic of India M. Venkaiah Naidu
Prime Minister
of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin
Premier of the
State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang
Acting Prime
Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic Artyom Novikov
Member of the
National Assembly, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Andleeb Abbas
Prime Minister
of the Russian Federation Mikhail Mishustin
Prime Minister
of the Republic of Tajikistan Kokhir Rasulzoda
Prime Minister
of the Republic of Uzbekistan Abdulla Aripov
Mikhail Mishustin’s remarks:
Mikhail Mishustin speaking at a meeting of the SCO Heads of Government Council
Mr Venkaiah
Naidu, colleagues,
First of all, I
would like to thank our Indian partners for organising this meeting of the SCO Heads
of Government Council. Despite the coronavirus pandemic, we managed
to meet via videoconference to discuss current aspects of our cooperation. This
is especially important in the context of new global challenges that require a
timely and effective response from the SCO.
The context
around today’s meeting includes complicated processes in global politics and
economics. Not everyone is ready to accept that the modern world is becoming
multipolar. Some Western states seek to maintain a privileged position,
violating the most important international principles through a policy of
economic pressure. Sanctions become a tool of interference in others’ internal
affairs; protectionist measures are introduced in trade and investment under
far-fetched pretexts.
The spread of the
novel coronavirus infection is further exacerbating the controversy, escalating
the already difficult situation. Economic activity is declining around the
world, and international production and distribution chains get disrupted. Trade
is flagging, incomes are falling, and unemployment is on the rise – we have all
felt this. The coronavirus has been a stress test for all states without exception.
At the same
time, according to some estimates, the SCO member economies this year will contract
less on average than the decline in the world economy. This fact gives us some
confidence in the future.
Modern
challenges require new areas and formats of cooperation. In the current
situation, we all need a predictable multilateral trading system relying on the
WTO rules. It is important to work together to ensure that all members follow
its rules and all the obligations assumed. And to preclude the blatant attempts
by a number of countries to bypass WTO norms.
True, the World
Trade Organisation is not perfect and needs to be reformed. But for now, it is
the only mechanism to protect our trade and economic interests. It needs to
become more stable and work smoothly, to be able to adapt to new conditions and
shut the grey zones some states use to strengthen their protectionist measures.
I propose
advancing these matters from an agreed stance, including as part of the preparations
for the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference, slated for June 2021 in Kazakhstan.
Colleagues,
The Shanghai
Cooperation Organisation has strong potential to ensure sustainable economic
development and security in the region.
At the 10 November
summit, the leaders of our countries adopted a number of documents that became
guidelines for real action. I am primarily referring to an action plan for the
implementation of the SCO Development Strategy for the next five years. We must
immediately start implementing it and must coordinate our steps.
Our countries have
already started working at the national level. In Russia, the Government has
prepared a plan for coronavirus response and relief efforts. We are open to
discussing it and implementing joint measures with our partners.
Today we will
adopt a five-year plan for the implementation of the Programme of Multilateral
Trade and Economic Cooperation for the next 15 years. Together we will solve
the most important tasks in almost all areas, from trade and transport to
spatial development and region-to-region ties. This requires proactive efforts
through industry-specific ministerial meetings and working groups. The Russian
side is ready to develop new specialised mechanisms if necessary.
Another important
topic is the development of alternative payment methods, independent of the
dollar. We believe the practice of mutual settlements in national currencies is
effective and should be expanded. We need to reach a coordinated decision on
this score and then begin discussing the possibility of creating mechanisms for
financial support of the SCO projects.
Economic
innovations such as going digital and introducing modern technologies are of
particular importance given the current coronavirus situation. This is one of
the main tracks of the SCO's activity, as is underscored in the statement issued
by the leaders of our countries. Digitalisation will enable faster inclusive
economic development, will create new points of growth and increase the
investment appeal of our economies. Russia is ready to share its best practices
in using 5G, cloud storage, big data, artificial intelligence, electronic government
services, and many other technologies.
Bridging the
digital divide is another relevant goal. Russia has proposed an initiative on developing
remote and rural areas in the SCO member states in order to ensure equal and
decent living standards even in the most far-flung corners of our countries.
The first step has
already been taken in this direction. A concept was approved at the summit,
which provided guidelines for further cooperation. We are ready to offer our
partners a new project – a databank of the best solutions in this area. It
contains over 140 ideas to improve infrastructure, social services,
agriculture, education and healthcare. We call on our partners to be more
active in filling this databank.
Transport infrastructure plays an important role in
the development of our association. We consider it our priority task to open
six routes before the end of this year. They are envisaged by the
Agreement on International Road Transportation
Facilitation
. Russia is doing all it can to carry
out such agreements. It is necessary to find solutions for adopting a programme
for developing SCO roads as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the drafting of
this programme is being delayed.
Another topic is our interregional cooperation. The
regions of our countries are striving to deepen their contacts. We have joint
projects, and we have established cooperation ties in different industries and
conduct business meetings. The SCO member states’ Heads of Regions Forum took
place in late October. The participants discussed mutually beneficial economic
initiatives. I believe we must actively develop ties between our regions.
Colleagues, we have much room for cooperation in many
areas – from the economy and politics to security and the humanitarian field.
Next year, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation will be 20 years old. I
consider it important to draft decisions that will put the SCO on the
trajectory of confident and intensive development. This is exactly the goal
that the leaders of our states have set.
It is necessary to define specific parameters for
coordinating national strategies and multilateral projects. The SCO is a key
link in forming an open, mutually beneficial and equitable space of cooperation
in Eurasia.
We and our partners in the Eurasian Economic Union
(EAEU) and China
are already actively involved in integrating the union with the Belt and Road
Initiative. We have made a number of agreements embracing several areas of work
in one go: the creation of digital corridors and the introduction of e-certificates
in trade on certain goods. We also still have to resolve the foreign policy
issues of the EAEU and China
with a view to developing mutually advantageous cooperation.
Working together – with the participation of the SCO,
the EAEU, ASEAN and other regional associations – we will manage to build the
Greater Eurasian Partnership, a territory of joint development and security.
In conclusion of my remarks, I would like to thank
again our Indian colleagues for their productive presidency of the Heads of
Government Council this year.
I would also like to congratulate Kazakhstan on assuming these powers
and wish success to Prime Minister Askar Mamin. Russia is willing to provide all-round
assistance to our friends from Kazakhstan.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/40979/
Highlight selection