seed_url: http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/transcripts/52273
final_url: http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/transcripts/52273
title: Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks
date: 2016-06-25
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

Events
Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks
June 25, 2016
15:20
Beijing
Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping made press statements following Russian-Chinese talks. Photo: TASS
President of the People’s Republic of China
Xi Jinping
Xi Jinping
President of People's Republic of China
retranslated
): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon.
My old friend President Putin and I are very pleased to see you.
Yesterday we attended the anniversary
summit
of the
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
Background information
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)
in Tashkent,
Uzbekistan, and today, we had an official meeting here in Beijing. I warmly
welcome President Putin to China.
See also
Russian-Chinese talks
June 25, 2016
We had a thorough exchange of opinions on the bilateral agenda, current international and regional issues,
and have reached agreements on a wide range of issues. We have signed and made
public the Joint Declaration of the People's Republic of China and the Russian
Federation, a joint declaration on the strengthening of global strategic
stability and a joint declaration on cooperation in the development of the information
space. Our foreign ministries circulated a statement by China and Russia on strengthening the role of international law. We also signed a number of cooperation
agreements in priority areas between the competent authorities and companies of the two countries.
President Putin’s current visit has
been fruitful, lending a fresh impetus to the development of Russian-Chinese
relations. Twenty years ago, China and Russia established relations of partnership and strategic interaction, and 15 years ago, the two countries
signed the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation. These
two events are milestones in the history of Russian-Chinese relations, because
it is thanks to the spirit of strategic cooperation and the idea of eternal
friendship documented in that treaty that Russian-Chinese relations are being continuously
enriched, deepened and elevated to new levels.
President Putin and I have unanimously decided that
the more complicated the international situation, the more determined we should
be, guided by the spirit of strategic cooperation and the idea of ​​eternal
friendship. We should strengthen mutual support, enhance mutual political and strategic trust and cooperation, and unswervingly deepen our relationship.
Since the beginning of this year,
thanks to the joint efforts in practical cooperation between our countries, we
have seen a good development trend. From January to May 2016, bilateral trade
amounted to $25.8 billion; it ceased to decline and grew by 2.7 percent
compared to the same period last year.
We have accumulated positive factors
in our trade and economic relations. For example, China is still Russia’s
largest trade partner. Russian machinery and hi-tech exports to China are
rapidly growing. Large joint projects of strategic importance are progressing
at a high rate.
China and Russia are the main economies
among emerging markets. President Putin and I both noted that the two sides
have the confidence and opportunity to expand regional economic cooperation, to overcome the global economic challenges and to maintain the positive dynamics
of economic development through deepening practical cooperation and aligning our
interests, in particular by converging the national development strategies “One
Belt, One Road” and
the Eurasian Economic Union
Background information
Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU)
Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks. President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping. Photo: TASS
In recent years, we have successfully
developed our humanitarian cooperation. The success of the cross-year project
at the national level, the years of the Chinese and Russian languages, tourism,
and friendly youth exchanges have contributed to strengthening mutual
understanding and traditional friendship between our peoples. Last year, 2.46
million Russian and Chinese people visited each other’s countries, and China
has become the largest source of tourists to Russia.
Today, more than 20,000 Russian students are learning
the Chinese language, while 50,000 Chinese students are studying Russian. The total number of exchange students in both Russia and China is 45,000.
We both think that these numbers are
not the limit. The parties should continue to strengthen mutual understanding
and friendly feelings by holding events within the media cross years and thus
establish a more favourable public opinion for the development of bilateral
relations, to jointly strengthen our right of voice internationally. I hope
that you, our friends in the media, will take an active part in the media cross
years and will make your contribution to China-Russia friendly interaction.
President Putin and I believe that
China and Russia as permanent UN Security Council members and a constructive
force for securing regional and international security and stability will be
committed to sustaining the aims and principles of the UN Charter and the basic
provisions of international law, ensuring a global strategic balance and stability and will firmly stand up for international justice.
We always support a political
settlement of international disputes and current regional problems by means of friendly consultations and peace talks. We oppose the use of force and threats
of using force, casual introduction of sanctions and threats of sanctions, and a unilateral policy and unilateral actions without consent form the parties
concerned. We shall continue our efforts to build up a new type of international relations based on the principles of cooperation and common benefit.
Friends,
President Putin and I are set to make joint efforts to assist in the sustainable and positive development of the China-Russia relations of an all-encompassing partnership and strategic
interaction. We will have a number of meetings before the end of the year on the sidelines of important international events. I have already invited
President Putin to the Chinese city of Hangzhou in early September for the G20
Summit. We will continue our exchange of opinions there.
Thank you for your time.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin
: President Xi Jinping, ladies and gentlemen,
The year 2016 is of particular
importance to our bilateral relations. This year, as Mr President has already
said, we mark the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Russian-Chinese
strategic partnership and 15 years of the signing of Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness
and Friendly Cooperation.
These two anniversaries have largely
predetermined the packed agenda and high intensity of this visit. I think you saw
this for yourselves as you witnessed the signing of various documents. These
are agreements pertaining to a variety of activities and areas of cooperation
as Mr President and I have said on our way to this room, including humanitarian
cooperation, the media (I am going to say more about this later), and the economy, of course, including various projects.
Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks. Photo: TASS
Mr Xi Jinping and I have had
talks
, first
one-on-one and then an
expanded meeting
with deputy prime ministers, heads of ministries and departments, and with executives of major companies from the two
countries. We discussed in detail the entire scope of issues on the bilateral
and international agendas and signed an impressive package of documents, as I said.
Prior to that, the Russian
delegation had a thorough
discussion
with Premier of the State Council Li
Keqiang. They also
exchanged views
with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress about the role of inter-parliamentary relations.
Priority in the negotiations has
traditionally been given to strengthening economic cooperation. China is a leading
trading partner of Russia, as we have already said.
Global economic crises, instability on commodity markets and foreign exchange markets could not but affect our
bilateral relations. We have seen some cutbacks in trade, although last year,
the Russian-Chinese goods turnover amounted to $63.5 billion, which is Russia’s
maximum with any country.
We have agreed with our Chinese
partners to step up efforts to reverse this downward trend. As the Chinese
President said, indeed, we were happy to see positive momentum at the beginning
of this year.
This year, Russia almost doubled
machinery and equipment exports to China. We are very grateful to our Chinese
friends, because the structure of our trade has always been our focus and we
have always paid great attention to it. Thanks to the joint efforts and the very welcoming attitude of our Chinese friends, we have been able to begin changing
the structure of our trade in the right direction.
Supplies of farm produce and foods
to the Chinese market increased by 30 percent. This, as I said, has given us an emerging positive trend.
To reduce dependence on foreign
exchange markets, we are expanding the use of national currencies in mutual
settlements. The share of payments in Russian rubles is three percent, and the share of the Chinese yuan is even greater at nine percent. The latter figure
should rise significantly after Russia establishes a clearing and settlement
centre for the yuan.
Our focus is on building up
industrial cooperation, launching joint projects in infrastructure, resource
development, and development of agriculture.
The Joint Commission on Investment Cooperation,
which met yesterday, has already selected 58 commercial initiatives with
investment totalling $50 billion; 12 projects are already underway.
However, energy of course remains
the locomotor of business relations between our countries. Russia is stepping
up deliveries through the Russian-Chinese oil pipeline, and the Tianjin
refinery project continues.
The Power of Siberia pipeline is
being built on schedule and will run at full capacity in 2020. Gas supplies
from Russia to China via the ”western“ route are being negotiated. Our
Chinese partners have increased their involvement in Russia’s largest project
to produce liquefied natural gas, Yamal LNG.
Cooperation in peaceful nuclear
energy is growing. The plan is for two more power units built with Russian
technology to go online at the Tianwan nuclear power plant in 2018. We are now
negotiating further joint operations in third country markets.
We are expanding close cooperation
in aircraft building and the space industry. Intergovernmental agreements have
just been signed launching programmes to jointly design and build a wide-body
long-range airplane and a heavy civilian helicopter. Roscosmos and the China
National Space Administration have agreed to promote interaction in rocket engine
construction.
Russia and China are pursuing
large-scale initiatives on transport infrastructure development. We are working
together to build a new motorway from Europe to Asia via Russia, in fact, a trans-Eurasia motorway which is meant to improve road communication across the entire giant continent. We are increasing the freight transit capacity of the ports in Primorye Territory. We will coordinate the construction of the Moscow – Kazan high-speed railway before the year’s end, but a step in that direction
has also been made today. Our countries take part in establishing a “new land
grain corridor”, which will allow for the export of Siberian grain to China and other Asia-Pacific countries.
Such diversification of transport
and logistics routes is in line with the concept of aligning the Eurasian Economic
Union and the Silk Road Economic Belt. Today, an official start was announced
for talks on a trade and economic cooperation agreement between our integration
projects. It promises a new level of partnership, which presupposes the creation of a common economic space on the entire Eurasian continent.
Special emphasis was laid at the talks on the enhancement of inter-regional and border region relations. I should stress the high efficiency of a relatively new interaction programme in the Volga-Yangtze format between the
Volga Federal District
Background information
Volga Federal District (VFD)
and the provinces
of the upper and middle reaches of the Yangtze River. Over 20 cooperation
agreements have already been signed within this format.
We have also agreed on furthering
humanitarian relations between the two countries. Within the cross years of the two nations’ media, interaction is improving in the information area. In the near future, the third Russian TV channel Katyusha will start broadcasting for the Chinese audience. ITAR-TASS and Channel One are also committed to expanding
contacts with Chinese partners.
We are strengthening cooperation in the field of sports. Next season – we agreed about this in previous meetings
with our friend, the President of China – next year we will make arrangement
for the Chinese hockey team Kunlun Red Star to play in the Continental Hockey
League. I think it will attract the attention of fans in both China and Russia
and in other countries that are involved in this high-profile international
event.
Naturally, we devoted a lot of time
to international issues. Russia and China have very close or almost identical
views on international developments. We will continue to closely coordinate our
steps in multilateral organisations, especially the UN, the SCO and
BRICS
Background information
BRICS
. As you may have noticed, yesterday we made a very important step in the expansion
of the SCO.
Russia will provide the necessary
support to our Chinese friends during their current presidency in the G20 and in their preparations for the Group’s next summit, which will take place on September 4–5 in Hangzhou. We have already held the presidency of that
organisation. However, we know that our Chinese partners take preparations for this event very seriously.
We discussed the next steps in dealing with the most pressing global and regional problems, joint efforts to combat international terrorism, strengthen security in the Asia-Pacific region,
and ensure the nuclear-free status of the Korean Peninsula. Assistance in the Syrian peace process, supporting peace and stability in the South China Sea and Central Asia are among our common foreign policy objectives.
In conclusion, I would like to thank
our Chinese friends for their hospitality, effective work, and a businesslike
and constructive approach to all the issues discussed. Indeed, our meetings,
our talks were held in a very sincere and, without exaggeration, friendly
atmosphere.
Thank you.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in section:
Transcripts
Publication date:
June 25, 2016, 15:20
Direct link:
en.kremlin.ru/d/52273
Text version