seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/21017/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/21017/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Dmitry Medvedev’s interview with Renmin Ribao
13 December 2015
19:00
Ahead of his visit to China, Dmitry Medvedev gave an interview to the Chinese daily.
Question:
Russia
and China are good neighbours, reliable partners and friends. The leaders of
the two countries frequently meet each other and are consistent in their
efforts to strengthen bilateral relations as a comprehensive strategic
partnership, which has already become a model for peaceful coexistence and
mutually beneficial partnership. Mr Prime Minister, could you share your
perspective on the relations between Russia and China?
Dmitry Medvedev:
Russia
and China have taken their trust-based partnership and strategic cooperation to
an all-time high. These relations are in line with Russia’s national interests
and have become a model of genuine good neighbourliness and mutual respect.
These relations facilitate all-round modernisation of both countries, who are
living to the rhythm of a new age. The proactive dialogue and cooperation
between Russia and China encompass absolutely all areas.
Visit
Dmitry Medvedev meets with chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Zhang Dejiang
Meeting with heads of Russian and Chinese IT companies
Dmitry Medvedev attends the opening ceremony of the 2nd World Internet Conference
Meeting between the SCO heads of government and President Xi Jinping of China
Dmitry Medvedev meets with President Xi Jinping of China
Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government and observer states’ heads of delegation
Dmitry Medvedev holds talks with Abdullah Abdullah, Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Over the centuries, the peoples of our countries have learned to
understand each other, to work together and be friends. Accordingly, we can be
regarded as long-time friends. Today, the multidimensional ties between Russia
and China are at their peak. This is mutually beneficial cooperation, in the
true sense of the term, where there are no superiors or underlings, those who
lead or those who follow.
We intend to
strengthen our strategic partnership across the board. Not only does this make
political or economic sense, but also most importantly the people of the two
countries are interested in developing these ties. You are probably aware of
the fact that more and more people in Russia are learning Chinese. Russian
courses are also spreading across China, which means that people want to learn
more about today’s Russia.
Since 2010, China
has firmly established itself as Russia’s biggest trade partner. Strategic
energy projects are being implemented, and we are developing our cooperation in
hi-tech areas such as space, aircraft manufacturing, nuclear power and
military-technical cooperation. We are attaching special attention to investment
and financial aspects of our everyday ties. We are also committed to
facilitating contacts between non-governmental institutions and
people-to-people ties.
There is a saying
in Russia that a close neighbour is better than a distant relative. It fully
applies to the relations between Russia and China. The long border dividing our
countries has long become an area of durable peace, friendship and
multidimensional cooperation.
I think that in recent years we have been
able to devise a clear framework for coordinating our joint efforts and
long-term development plans. The regular contact between the leaders of our two
countries, dating back to 1996, is a perfect example. During my visit to China,
Mr Li Keqiang and I will hold the 20
anniversary meeting. We have
agreed in principle to link integration processes within the Eurasian Economic
Union with the Silk Road Economic Belt initiative. This will provide additional
opportunities for creating a single economic space.
Let me emphasise that Russia and China maintain
their global strategic cooperation in international affairs, and their
relations are an increasingly important factor in international relations.
Russia and China are efficiently working together in a number of multilateral platforms,
first and foremost in the UN, the Group of 20, BRICS and SCO. We approach the
most urgent issues of today’s world in a balanced and pragmatic manner, and
respect the right of every people to self-determination. We are staunch
opponents of pressure against sovereign countries, including through unilateral
sanctions, the use of force or double standards.
I believe that the world would have been a
much better place if more countries interacted with each other as Russia and
China do. As an ancient Chinese saying goes, the greatest victory is the battle
not fought.
Question:
Russian and Chinese economies
are characterised by a high degree of mutual complementarity, which is one of
the drivers of steady development of bilateral relations in the spirit of
mutually beneficial partnership. What new points of growth, in your view, will
appear in future in Russian-Chinese trade and economic cooperation?
Dmitry Medvedev:
Our Chinese
partners and we are unanimous in assuming that a high level of trust and mutual
understanding in the political sphere should help cooperation in trade,
economic, humanitarian and other spheres.
Our contacts have
been stepped up at all levels recently. A mostramified and multi-level bilateral cooperation mechanism has been
created with China. We don’t have a mechanism of this kind with any other
country. Apart from a Russian-Chinese commission preparing regular meetings of
heads of government, the recent years have seen the creation of
intergovernmental Russian-Chinese commissions on energy, humanitarian and
investment cooperation at the level of deputy prime ministers.
Since 2010, China
has been the leader in mutual trade with Russia. Both countries are facing a
large-scale task of increasing bilateral trade to $200 billion by 2020. And we
are firmly resolved to fulfil this task.
The world economic
situation is complicated and this affects all countries without exception. A
tendency has emerged earlier this year towards a decline in the general volume
of trade between Russia and China. This has happened mostly because of a drop
in oil prices. The pattern of trade has changed as well, with Russian exports
increasingly dominated by agricultural produce and high value-added products.
Specifically, during the first ten months of 2015, Russian exports to China
were characterised by an increased share of food and agricultural products,
metals and metallic manufactures, chemicals and even textiles.
This phenomenon
facilitates Russian economic diversification. Companies are encouraged to be
more actively open to the world economy, find their production niches, and
promote high value-added products to potential markets.
Our common goal is
to remove barriers in mutual trade and investment. We hope to launch major
projects within a few years, which will add tens of billions of dollars to our
trade and will make it possible to regain a steady positive trajectory.
Bilateral
investment cooperation, one capable of giving an impetus to trade, is gaining
momentum. An effective basic infrastructure has been created for its successful
development. I mean 58 major joint investment projects that were approved in St
Petersburg on June 18 of this year at the second meeting of the
Intergovernmental Russian-Chinese Commission for Investment Cooperation.
Our interaction in
the context of the Eurasian Economic Union is being stepped up.  Since 2012, an early warning mechanism for
sensitive goods in mutual trade has been in operation. An Agreement on an
Exchange of Information concerning  Goods
and Motor Vehicles Crossing the Customs Border of the EAEU and the PRC is being
coordinated. This agreement will help to minimise the use of “gray” schemes in
trade.
A decision has been
adopted on launching talks with regard to preparing an agreement on EAEU-PRC
trade and economic cooperation. This agreement is expected to ensure favourable
conditions for promoting practical cooperation and attracting long-term
investment, to create mechanisms for simplifying and encouraging trade and to
approximate our practices in the sphere of standards, technical regulations,
and customs administration rules.
Question
Russia and China have ample experience in interstate
thematic years. What do you think of the outgoing Youth Friendly Exchanges
Years? What do you expect of the approaching Cross Years of Mass Media?
Dmitry Medvedev:
Personal contacts
in the modern world are becoming an ever-stronger factor in international
relations and a tool for confidence-building and mutual understanding. “Nothing
helps and inspires people better than friendship,” Chinese modern classic Ba
Jin said.
The latest
ambitious interstate thematic events are an impetus to strengthening the
Russia-China cultural dialogue.
We began with an
exchange of national Years to be followed by Language and Tourism Years. They
were all great successes. They helped our nations to learn more about each
other, and provided a wealth of information about each other’s history, culture
and contemporary life. What matters most, they allowed us to start  building friendships.
Another essential
bilateral action, one that focuses on young people, is coming to an end. The
Youth Friendly Exchanges Years have become a sort of relay race by the elder
and younger generations as we Russians seek to know China better.
It is hard to
enumerate all the 600 plus related events – summer schools and camps, young
researchers’ and businesspeople’s meetings, Russian and Chinese language
contests, forums, conferences, concerts, film weeks, art shows, athletic
contests, and student exchanges. The concert by a combined Russian-Chinese
youth symphony orchestra conducted by Russia’s celebrated Valery Gergiev was a
landmark.
The Youth Friendly Exchanges Years
involved all fields of Russia-China cooperation – politics, the economy,
culture, sport, tourism, research, education and, last but not least, IT.
project for annual youth delegation exchanges, for 100 delegates a year, was launched
in 2014. Our joint efforts have increased youth contacts on a massive scale and
provided a footing for regular contact.
Joint
WWII Victory celebrations were of tremendous importance, and
prompted a new look at current global problems from the point of a generation
that will soon bear the brunt of decision-making.
The
closing gala of the Youth Friendly Exchanges Years has been timed to coincide
with the 20
Russia-China prime-ministerial meeting and to the
opening of the Cross Years of Mass Media – another breakthrough joint
project.
We are finishing
work on a detailed plan for the Media Years’ 100 plus events. There are feature
and documentary films to make, TV series to show, books to translate and
publish, and book exhibits to arrange. Partnership in high-tech media also has
breathtaking prospects. While on a visit in China, I will attend the World
Internet Conference in Wucheng.
I am sure our
projects will not be limited to the Media Years, with so many fields to launch
effective dialogue in. We will work together to open up new spheres of
cooperation.
Question:
The Ufa Declaration, which the
SCO leaders adopted in July of this year, says that the participating countries
support China’s Silk Road Economic Belt initiative. How is Russia cooperating
with China and other member countries within the SCO framework to implement
this initiative? What role can Russia play in this?
Dmitry Medvedev:
China is not only a
friend but also one of the key economic partners of Russia. This is why we have
been actively implementing the initiative to integrate the Eurasian Economic
Union with China’s Silk Road Economic Belt. We have set out several priority
spheres for our cooperation, such as the encouragement of mutual investments,
the joint implementation of large projects, and the creation of industry parks
and cross-border economic cooperation zones.
We have not been
trying to promote integration in one sphere by neglecting it in other areas. Of
course, our priority is the Eurasian Economic Union. But we have also started
interacting with China within the framework of the Silk Road Economic Belt
(SREB). At the same time, we haven’t abandoned the idea of a common economic
space from Lisbon to Vladivostok. We believe that all of these projects can
develop harmoniously.
The delegations of
the Russian and Chinese foreign ministries for the first time discussed the
practical coordinated implementation of the EAEU and SREB projects during a
meeting that was held in August of this year. A modern transit system and
infrastructure is one of the main elements of this coordination. We must
prioritise the routes that will enhance the safety of our transport corridors,
including the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Vladivostok Free Port Zone, which
is an area in Russia’s Far East that will comprise the region’s key ports.
Another priority is the EAEU territory and the development of transport
corridors from China to the EU via Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
In terms of doing
business, the conjugation of the EAEU and SREB projects should simplify trade
and improve the protection of mutual investments by the EAEU countries and
China. In other words, we must simplify the transfer of goods across the
border, remove regulatory barriers and promote cooperation in high-tech
industries, such as information technology, healthcare and education,
electronic commerce and energy efficiency.
The creation of a
co-development area in Eurasia will provide an example of responsible and practical
partnership in the sphere of integration and help us boost cooperation, not
only in energy supply, but also in the high-tech spheres of the transport,
production, construction, communications and agriculture industries.
Question
: The SCO
gives high priority to Internet security cooperation. At the beginning of this
year, SCO member states submitted to the UN a draft International Code of Conduct
for Information Security. What,
in your opinion, is the key to international cooperation in the sphere of
Internet security?
Dmitry Medvedev:
The
importance of ensuring information security today is difficult to overestimate.
Modern information and communication technology is being increasingly used in
military and political confrontations. In addition, terrorists and criminals
have adopted Internet technology. Many countries are constantly encountering
these problems.
These threats cannot be
ignored. Obviously, before it is too late, it is crucial to prevent the
criminalisation of the Internet and guarantee human rights in the digital
sphere. It is extremely difficult to do this without a comprehensive
international legal framework for international information security cooperation.
So the first step in creating an international information security system
could be the adoption of a code or rules of conduct in the form of “soft laws.”
Universal rules of responsible
conduct in the information space are the most in-demand form of international
collaboration in fighting international information security threats. This was
the SCO countries’ rationale in drafting the International Code of Conduct
for Information Security. The
document is open to suggestions and comments by all interested parties. The
absolute majority of states support the main idea of this initiative, that is
to prevent conflicts and aggression in the information space and keep it
peaceful and free.
This fact shows
that we are moving in the right direction. The relevance of such unifying
initiatives, aimed at preventing conflicts in the digital sphere, increases
every day. Politics and politicians should stay ahead of technological progress
and find effective solutions before technology creates new reality.
Question:
The AliExpress online
marketplace, a subsidiary of Alibaba – a company founded by Chinese
entrepreneur Ma Yun – is the largest e-commerce platform in Russia today.
AliExpress is the first company that facilitates cross-border shopping for
people living in remote regions and villages, and many Russians are starting to
buy Chinese goods on AliExpress. This means the Internet Plus programme has
become an engine for economic development, which benefits both Russia and
China. What is Russia’s stance on cooperation through the global network during
the Internet Plus era? What is Russia’s policy in this regard?
Dmitry Medvedev:
We value our
relationship and work to establish an even closer cooperation in the most
promising areas, including e-commerce, which has recently seen booming growth worldwide.
Russia also
appreciates the convenience of e-commerce. We have a lot of on-line-stores,
which deliver inside the country, and some to the CIS countries. It provides quicker
and better deals for both buyers and sellers. During 2014, more than 8 million
Russians bought clothing and footwear online. We also have online procurement for
state and municipal needs (the business-to-government segment), with the
exception of non-public purchases.
For the moment,
there is no major Internet platform for promoting Russian brands abroad. This
year we launched a web project that enables the Russian manufacturers of clothing
and footwear to use the AliExpress platform free of charge to sell their
products. Russian goods are marked
made
in Russia
in the AliExpress catalogue, with the prices quoted in roubles.
About 100 Russian brands of clothing and accessories are expected to be
presented on AliExpress by the end of this year. I am sure they will be of
interest to both Russian and foreign buyers.
We will certainly
try to create our own projects as well. Therefore, we are now improving the
logistics system and the export legislation. Even the retail goods export
procedures have been simplified. Exporters are already exempt from certain
customs duties (the customs duty for the export of goods not subject to export tax
and shipped by international mail). Express cargo declarations can also be
submitted online.
Your country’s
experience in online selling to distant markets is very useful for us. We are
carefully studying China’s experiment with setting up a pilot area of
​​cross-border e-commerce in Hangzhou, which involves building a whole
industrial chain of e-commerce and creating a legal framework and rules in this
field.
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/21017/
Highlight selection