seed_url: http://government.ru/en/news/48559/
final_url: http://government.ru/en/news/48557/
title: News
date: 2025-12-30T17:50:00+04:00
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: follow_ok

OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Russia-China talks
24 May 2023
07:45
Beijing, People’s Republic of China
Mikhail Mishustin held talks with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang.
Russia-China
talks
Documents
signed during the talks
Excerpts from the transcript:
Mikhail Mishustin
: Your Excellency Mr Li Qiang,
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang welcoming delegations during the official greeting ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing
24 May 2023
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang welcoming delegations during the official greeting ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Official greeting ceremony for Mikhail Mishustin by Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Russia-China talks
24 May 2023
Russia-China talks
24 May 2023
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang
24 May 2023
Ceremony to sign joint documents
24 May 2023
Предыдущая новость
Следующая новость
Mikhail Mishustin and Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Qiang welcoming delegations during the official greeting ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing
I am glad to meet you. We have
recently talked on the phone and had a detailed discussion on our bilateral
relations. I could feel your warm attitude and energy during the conversation.
First, allow me to convey to you
the best wishes on behalf of President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
This is my first visit to China
as Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. The fact that it is taking place
at the invitation of President of the People’s Republic of China Mr Xi Jinping
is extremely important – we had a meeting in Moscow in March as part of his
state visit to Russia.
Mr Li Qiang, I would like to thank you and all our Chinese friends for the warm and hospitable welcome extended
to the Russian delegation here.
Shanghai was our first stop on this visit to China, where we attended a major Russian-Chinese Business Forum.
It brought together hundreds of Russian and Chinese business leaders, as well
as heads of major world-class corporations, and also SMEs. They all contribute
in their own singular ways to promoting our cooperation.
This opportunity to interact with
the business community enabled us to cover the agenda of the Russia-China
comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation in all its breadth. This
proves yet again that the friendship and neighbourly relations between our
countries, which are rooted in millennia-old ties, provide a solid foundation
for moving ahead at a sustained pace and promoting trade and economic,
scientific, technical and humanitarian cooperation in all their aspects.
Relations between Russia and China have grown to an unprecedented level. They are noted for mutual respect of each other’s
interests and a desire to jointly stand against the new challenges created by the increased turbulence on the international stage and the illegal sanctions
pressure on the part of the collective West. As our Chinese friends say, unity
makes it possible to move mountains.
In March, President of China Xi Jinping was in Russia
on his first foreign visit after his re-election as the head of state. That
momentous event reaffirmed the special nature of Russian-Chinese relations and understandably attracted considerable interest throughout the world.
The decisions adopted by President Vladimir Putin and President of China Xi Jinping set out strategic guidelines for building up our interaction
in eight priority areas, while the governments of Russia and China are making
coordinated efforts to implement the agreements reached at the top level.
Despite the complicated international situation, our
trade and economic cooperation are developing successfully. As you have pointed
out, mutual trade increased by one third to nearly $190 billion last year. In January through March, bilateral trade increased by another 25 percent year on year, to $52 billion.
It is notable that 70 percent of cross-border
settlements are made in our national currencies, the Russian rouble and the Chinese yuan.
I am confident that this year we will not only fulfil ahead
of schedule the task of increasing mutual trade to $200 billion, set by our
leaders, but we will also go beyond this milestone figure.
Our energy partnership has attained a strategic level.
Russia is the largest provider of oil to China, and we are increasing the exports of natural gas, coal and electricity. We are implementing major energy
projects jointly with China, such as the Power of Siberia, Yamal LNG, Arctic
LNG 2, the Amur Gas Chemical Complex, and the Ust-Luga gas processing complex. We
are also actively increasing our cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear
energy.
Developing transport and logistics routes through the border between Russia and China has special
importance in the new geopolitical reality. Last year, we opened the road and railway bridge across the Amur River, and are now committed to accelerating
infrastructure development efforts on the border. We must make sure that we
move forward in sync. This way, we can increase cargo flows and further expand
Russia-China trade.
We are also offering new
opportunities for strengthening high-technology cooperation. This covers
aircraft manufacturing and shipbuilding, producing machines and equipment,
engaging in joint space research projects and many other areas.
Building on the solid research we
have accumulated and our manufacturing capabilities, we can work together to ensure technological sovereignty for both Russia and China.
Region-to-region ties are an essential element of our cooperation. Most of the Russian regions and Chinese
provinces take part in joint projects, which is essential for creating new
points of growth and improving the wellbeing of the people.
The people of Russia and China
have every right to be proud of their past, their rich culture and traditions.
We stand for further strengthening our cultural and humanitarian exchanges and ties.
Mr Li Qiang, we have an extensive
and meaningful agenda, and I suggest that we discuss all these matters.
Documents signed
during the talks:
1. Protocol between the Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision (Russian
Federation) and the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic
of China on phytosanitary requirements regarding millet exports from the Russian Federation to the People’s Republic of China.
2. Protocol between the Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision (Russian
Federation) and the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic
of China on phytosanitary requirements regarding medicinal plant raw material exports for Chinese medicine from the Russian Federation to the People’s Republic of China.
3. Memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian
Federation and the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China to strengthen investment cooperation in trade in services.
4. Memorandum of friendship
and cooperation between the Ministry of Sport of the Russian Federation and the General Administration of Sport of the People’s Republic of China.
5. Joint statement of intention to renew the pilot programme “Fast-track patent processing” between
the Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Russian Federation) and the National Intellectual Property Administration of the People’s Republic of China.
Person:
Mikhail Mishustin
Government of the Russian Federation
http://government.ru/en/news/48557/
Highlight selection