seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/annual_performance_plan_revised2_2021_2022.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/annual_performance_plan_revised2_2021_2022.pdf
title: annual_performance_plan_revised2_2021_2022.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
OR Tambo Building
Private Bag X152, Pretoria, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
4
Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
A. EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY STATEMENT
I
t gives me great pleasure to present the Annual Performance Plan (APP) of the
Department of International Relations and Co-operation (DIRCO) for the year
2021/22.
This APP is reflective of the priorities in the 2020 – 2025 Strategic Plan. It consolidates
the gains, remedies the deficiencies of our previous performance and sets out what
needs to be done to achieve the goals set out in the vision articulated in the Strategic
Plan.
Unfortunately, as we enter this new financial year, the challenges posed by the
COVID-19 global pandemic persist. Thousands of South Africans have died from
the virus and our economy, as is the case with the global economy, has been put
under severe strain. The science-driven measures to suppress the spread of the
virus across the globe and here in South Africa, has impacted negatively on local
livelihoods, increasing joblessness and vulnerabilities. New and existing social
protection measures were implemented to shield those most affected from job losses
and reduction in incomes.
Many DIRCO staff members have sadly also passed away from COVID-19-related
complications. We extend our condolences to their families as we do to all South
Africans who have lost loved ones during this period.
The measures implemented to slow the spread of COVID-19 have impacted on the
work of the department. A new normal has been introduced, necessitated by remote
work in the diplomatic arena. This has increased efficiencies in some areas of our
engagements that are not dependent on negotiations in multilateral fora. Work that was
dependent on negotiations was more difficult as often this requires person-to-person
contact. Moreover, the global digital divide often resulted in some delegations across
the world not being able to participate effectively in key online platforms.  Nonetheless,
we will harness the lessons of remote work and digital diplomacy to develop a hybrid
approach to our international work so that we become more efficient and effective.
The challenges in the international environment include increasing trends towards
unilateralism, protectionism, narrow nationalism, right-wing populism and rising
tensions between the United States and China.
DIRCO is required to engage strategically in this environment, using its strong bilateral
footprint and a respected multilateral presence to advance South Africa’s interests

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
5
A. EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY STATEMENT
and values and also play a leading role in promoting the interests and issues that are
important for Africa and the Global South.
This APP is responsive to the opportunities and challenges as outlined in the 2019 –
2024 Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF). The MTSF itself reflects the differing
mandating environments that inform DIRCO’s work. These include our national
context, the Constitution and the National Development Plan, the African Union’s (AU)
Agenda 2063 and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development 2030 Agenda.
DIRCO has a dynamic role to play in the improvement of the lives of South Africans
by utilising its bilateral relations and global footprint effectively and profitably. This
includes identifying strategic opportunities for skills and knowledge development,
targeted investments and growing markets for South Africa’s products and services,
in an integrated and inclusive manner.
This year’s State of the Nation Address (SONA) has also provided guidelines to the
priorities we pursue in support of the key national goals of foreign direct investment,
job creation as well as advancing the notion of global response to the challenge of
COVID-19. The Coronavirus response requires ensuring equal access to vaccines for
South Africa and the African continent. SONA has clearly highlighted the adversarial
effects that the outbreak of this pandemic has had on our national priorities as
articulated at the beginning of the year 2020. Part of DIRCO’s principal responsibility
it to help rebuild our national economy.
South Africa has handed over the Chairship of the AU after a hectic year that saw
President Cyril Ramaphosa dedicating much of his time ensuring that African countries,
through the AU, are able to respond to the pandemic. This included establishing key
platforms to access vaccines and other medicines required for an effective regional
response. South Africa, through President Ramaphosa, worked with the UN Secretary-
General to call for debt relief for African and other developing countries to allow all our
economies to recover quicker.
During this period, the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) came into
force at the 13th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of AU Heads of State and
Government, held virtually on 5 December 2020.
DIRCO’s focus necessarily expands to embrace this unprecedented economic
development for our continent, ensuring that not only does our country benefit from
the AfCFTA, but also, that we do our best as a nation to contribute to the success
of this bold step forward for Africa. To this extent, the implementation of the Africa
Agenda takes on added importance.
While DIRCO is already engaged in meaningful continental and efforts further afield
to combat and mitigate this outbreak, we are also setting our sights on leveraging the
election of a new American Administration to reaffirm the multilateral gains lost over
the last few years. This may provide the much-needed strategic turn-around in favour
of multilateralism.
Our situational analysis continues to shape our initiatives, policy trajectory and
adaptability in the geopolitical flux, which requires cutting-edge understanding of global
dynamics. To this end, we will enhance our footprint on the multilateral front, including
the UN, South-South relations and the AU, while building on bilateral relations with the
view to enhancing our and Africa’s visibility and impact on the global stage.
The execution of our foreign policy is predicated on the achievement and pursuit
of our national priorities, in a manner that contributes positively to the well-being of
people through promoting justice, peace and sustainable development in the region,
the continent and the world.
The department, guided by the seven strategic priorities of the President, will work
collaboratively with all government departments to become more focussed in the
execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. This approach will enable DIRCO to
increasingly contribute, in a more direct and concrete manner, to inclusive economic
growth, improving the capabilities of South Africans, and a capable state.
SIGNATURE:
EXECUTIVE
AUTHORITY
DR GRACE NALEDI MANDISA PANDOR
MINISTER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
6
Ambassador NN Losi
Acting Director-General of the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation
B. ACCOUNTING OFFICER STATEMENT
T
he Department of International Relations and Cooperation’s (DIRCO)
overview and vision
South Africa’s foreign policy is guided by the Constitution  and its founding
principles. Foreign policy is an important tool that contributes to the realisation of the
National Development Plan (NDP): Vision 2030 through the Medium Term Strategic
Framework (MTSF). On the basis of our identity as an African country, South Africa’s
foreign policy is driven by a clear and critical understanding of our national, regional
and continental priorities in a multipolar world where the geostrategic politics of
the continent are becoming increasingly central to global political and economic
competition for natural resources and market share.
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation ( DIRCO), being the lead
department in pursuit of South Africa’s foreign policy objectives, needs to manage and
coordinate the other domestic role-players contributing, directly or indirectly, to the
achievement thereof.
Cognisant of the intrinsic link between South Africa’s national interest and Africa’s
stability, unity and prosperity, the country has placed the advancement of the African
Agenda at the centre of its foreign policy trajectory and has had considerable success
in promoting the interests of Africa in different fora. Tangible progress and a contribution
to improving the lives of all South Africans have been delivered in terms of security,
development, tourism, trade and investment. South Africa’s foreign policy objectives
are guided by the overall vision set for DIRCO in the NDP, namely:
“In 2030, South Africa, informed by its national interests, is a globally competitive
economy, and an influential and leading member of the international community.
South Africa promotes and contributes to democracy, the rule of law, human rights,
and peace and security, within a safe, peaceful and prosperous Southern African
Region and Africa, as well as a fair and just world.”
Following the strategic planning session, held during November 2020, the following
value proposition was agreed upon, which serves as the guiding principle in the
execution of our foreign policy:
“Reposition South Africa as a respected global leader and as a key contributor
to the achievement of our domestic priorities.”

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
7
B. ACCOUNTING OFFICER STATEMENT
This value proposition aligns with what was identified as our impact statement during
the strategic planning session of 2019, namely:
“A department committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign
policy, placing South Africa as an influential actor and partner on the international
stage while effectively contributing to the delivery of the country’s domestic
priorities and advancement of the African Agenda.”
Reflection on 2020/21
The emergence of the Novel Coronavirus in 2019 proved to be one of the most
significant events in world history, which is having a devastating impact on the global
economy, with a particularly strong impact on the poor and the most vulnerable
countries on the African continent.
The disruptive effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the destabilisation of post-war
multilateralism, increasing nationalism, the economic rise of China and other global
trends required DIRCO to critically reflect on its successes and failures, both internally
and externally, to inform the 2021/22 planning priorities in the context of the 2020/25
strategic priorities the department had identified for itself in October 2019.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the department had to explore innovative ways
to conduct traditional diplomacy, due to the cessation of international travel for most
of 2020.
Looking ahead, we will continue to build on the legacy of the past year. For example,
South Africa completed its third two-year term as a non-permanent member of the
United Nations Security Council (UNSC) in December 2020. During our term, we
promoted a multilateral approach to addressing issues related to international peace
and security, in order to ensure global sustainable peace.
South Africa endeavoured to play a leading role in African issues discussed by the
Security Council, as well as actively engaging in issues outside the continent, including
playing a bridge-builder role.
We emphasised the importance of a proactive approach to the maintenance of
international peace and security, particularly in the form of drawing greater attention
to preventative diplomacy mechanisms, as well as post-conflict reconstruction and
development. South Africa maintained close coordination with the two other African
countries serving on the UNSC, in order to ensure that African Union (AU) positions
were advanced at the UN, thereby strengthening AU-UN cooperation.
Also, South Africa served as the Chair of the AU for 2020, with the COVID-19 pandemic
requiring a realignment of the priorities we had set for ourselves. Our term on the
UNSC ended on a high note in December 2020, with South Africa presiding over the
council for that month. December 2020 therefore saw the convergence of South Africa
simultaneously holding key leadership positions in both the AU and the UN.
December 2020 was also the final month of the AU’s ambition to silence the guns on
the continent by 2020. In this context, South Africa hosted an Extraordinary Summit of
the AU Assembly on Silencing the Guns in December 2020, during which a decision
was taken to extend the Silencing the Guns initiative by 10 years.
Priorities for 2021/22
Building a better South Africa
As South Africa’s foreign policy implementation is guided and shaped by its national
interest, South Africa will continue to utilise high-level multilateral and bilateral meetings
to advance our wide-ranging objectives.
The department, with a strengthened focus on economic diplomacy, and in order to
contribute to the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan, presented by President
Cyril Ramaphosa to the Joint Sitting of Parliament on 15 October 2020, will continue to
focus on the following objectives, in line with the MTSF 2019 – 2024, to:
•	 increase foreign direct investment into South Africa and Africa
•	 improve South African access to foreign markets
•	 contribute to increased tourism arrivals to South Africa
•	 improve investor confidence.
Building a better Africa
Africa remains central to South Africa’s foreign policy and at the core of this focus is
South Africa’s Pan-Africanist vision of unity, solidarity and a common African destiny.

•	 implement effective financial management through the application of good
financial management systems, including management accounting, financial
accounting, supply chain management, and risk and internal controls in line
with the requirements of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999
•	 implement efficient and secure information and communications technology
infrastructure and systems.
Alignment of priorities for 2021/22 with the strategic objectives 2020 – 2025
Through continued attention to the focus areas for 2020 – 2025 and the priorities
for 2021/22, the department will continue to deliver on DIRCO’s strategic objectives,
namely:
•	 protect and promote South African national interests and values through
bilateral and multilateral interactions
•	 conduct and coordinate South Africa’s international relations and promote its
foreign policy objectives
•	 monitor international developments and advise government on foreign policy
and related domestic matters
•
contribute to the formulation  of international law and enhance respect for its
provisions
•	 promote multilateralism to secure a rules-based international system
•	 maintain a modern, effective department driven to pursue excellence and
provide a world-class and uniquely South African service.
As the Acting Accounting Officer, I hereby undertake to ensure appropriate
governance, systems and processes to implement the Annual Performance
Plan.
Against this background, it is, therefore, important that there should be continuity
in the focus areas identified for 2020 – 2025, namely:
•	 a united and politically cohesive continent that works towards shared
prosperity and sustainable development
•	 enhanced regional integration with increased and balanced trade within
the Southern African Development Community and on the continent, by
supporting the creation of the African Continental Free Trade Area
•	 promoting greater peace, security and stability on the continent
•	 using South Africa’s membership and engagements in various international
fora to advance the African Agenda.
Building a better World
Being committed to multilateralism as one of the principles underpinning South
Africa’s foreign policy, we continue to advocate for the reform of global governance
institutions, as well to promote participation in selected multilateral fora outside the
UN system as a force multiplier for the overall strengthening of multilateralism.
Aligned to the above-mentioned, during 2021/22, there should be a continuation
of the focus areas identified for 2020 – 2025, namely:
•	 active participation in institutions of global governance
•	 Peace, Security and Development Agenda
•	 South-South cooperation
•	 cooperation with countries of the North.
Building a better DIRCO
In striving for the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy, operating in
a complex global environment, the department has to adhere to government-wide
regulations in a manner that complements and adds value to DIRCO’s primary
mandate, namely to utilise the department and its expertise to achieve South
Africa’s strategic foreign policy objectives.
To this end, the department will continue to focus on key areas identified for 2020
– 2025, namely:
•	 develop a capable and ethical workforce
•	 rebuild an organisational culture guided by a shared vision and new values
•	 review the organisational structure
SIGNATURE:
ACCOUNTING
AUTHORITY
AMBASSADOR NN LOSI
ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
9
C. OFFICIAL SIGN-OFF
DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL SIGNATURE DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL SIGNATURE
Ambassador NN Ntshinga
Deputy Director-General
Africa
Ambassador NN Ntshinga
Acting Deputy Director-General
Global Governance and Continental
Agenda
Professor A Sooklal
Deputy Director-General
Asia and Middle East
Mr TC Monyela
Deputy Director-General
Public Diplomacy
Amb GM Tsengiwe
Acting Deputy Director-General
Corporate Management
Ambassador NN Losi
Chief of State Protocol and Consular
Services
Amb NJ Mxakato-Diseko
Deputy Director-General
Diplomatic Training, Research and
Development
Ambassador M Dlomo
Deputy Director-General
Americas and Europe
NAME SIGNATURE NAME SIGNATURE
Ms H Bhengu
Acting Chief Financial Officer
Ambassador NN Losi
Acting Director-General
Ms MC Lobe
Head Official responsible for Planning:
Acting Chief Operations Officer
Approved by:
Dr GNM Pandor
Executive Authority
It is hereby certified that this Annual Performance Plan:
• was developed by the m anagement of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) under the guidance of the Minister
• takes into account all th e relevant policies, legislation and other mandates for which DIRCO is responsible
• accurate ly reflects the impact, outcomes and outputs, which DIRCO will endeavour to achieve over the period: 2021 – 2022.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
10
D. CONTENTS
PART A: OUR MANDATE
PART C: MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE
PART B: STRATEGIC FOCUS
1. Updates to the relevant legislative and policy mandat es 14
2. Updates to institutional  policies and strategies 15
3. Updates to relevant court rulings 15
4. Updated situation analy sis 20
4.1 External environment analysis 20
4.2 Internal environment analysis 29
5. Institutio nal programme performance information 34
Programme 1 34
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 35
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 40
• Resource consideration 41

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
11
PART D: TECHNICAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION (TID)
TIDs 84
10. Glossary and acronyms 112
11. Annexure 121
Programme 2 44
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 45
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 50
• Resource consideration 51
Programme 3 54
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 55
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 62
• Resource consideration 63
Programme 4 66
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 67
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 70
• Resource consideration 71
Programme 5 74
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 75
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 76
• Resource consideration 77
6. Updated key risks 78
7. Public e ntities 80
8. Infrastructure projects 81
9. Public-p rivate partnerships 82

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
12
PART A: OUR MANDATE

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
14
1. UPDATES TO THE RELEVANT LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY MANDATE
1.1 Constitutional mandate
1.1.1 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 is the supreme law of the Republic and all law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid. The President is ultimately
 responsible for South Africa’s foreign policy and it is the President’s prerogative to appoint heads of South Africa’s diplomatic missions, receive foreign heads of diplomatic
 missions, conduct inter-state relations and enter into international agreements.
1.1.2 The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation (Minister), in accordance with her Cabinet portfolio responsibilities, is entrusted with the formulation, promotion and execution
  of South Africa’s foreign policy. The Minister assumes overall responsibility for all aspects of South Africa’s international relations in consultation with the President. In practice, the
 Minister consults the Cabinet and individual Cabinet ministers on aspects of importance, as well as on cross-cutting issues that have a bearing on the programmes of other ministries
 and departments.
1.1.3 Oversigh t and accountability in the formulation and conduct of South Africa’s foreign policy are vested in the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on International Relations and Cooperation.
1.2 Legislative mandates
1.2.1 The Foreign States Immunities Act, 1981 (Act 87 of 1981): This Act regulates the extent of the immunity of foreign states from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic and provides
 for matters connected therewith.
1.2.2 The Diplo matic Immunities and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2001): The Act provides for the immunities and privileges of diplomatic missions and consular posts and their  members,
 of heads of states, special envoys and certain representa tives of the United Nations and its specialised agencies, and other international organisations and of certain other persons.
 Provision  is also made for immunities and privileges pertaining to international conferences and meetings. It enacts into law certain conventions and provides for matters connected
 therewith .
1.2.3 The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 2001 (Act 51 of 2001): The Act establishes an African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund (ARF) to
 enhance  cooperation between the Republic and other countries, in particular African countries, through the promotion of democracy, good governance, the prevention and resolution of
 conflict, socio-economic development and integration, humanitarian assistance and human resource development.
1.2.4 Internatio nal agreements (multilateral and bilateral): These include international agreements concluded by the Republic of South Africa in terms of sections 231(2) and 231(3) of the
 Constitution of the Repub lic of South Africa, 1996.
1.2.5  Presiden t Cyril Ramaphosa signed into law the Foreign Service Act (FSA), Act 26 of 2019, which was gazetted on 4 June 2020. The Act provides for the administration, accountability
 and functioning of a profe ssional foreign service of the Republic of South Africa that will be managed by the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO). The
 legislatio n governs the operational requirements that are suitable and supportive of the operations of the Foreign Service in a global environment. The Foreign Service is tasked
 with promoting and adva ncing South Africa’s international relations and cooperation by representing the Republic in an  effective, coherent and comprehensive manner abroad. The
 regulatio ns are currently being drafted to guide the implementation of the FSA, 2019.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
15
1.3 Policy mandates
1.3.1 The Measures & Guidelines for Enhanced Coordination of South Africa’s International Engagements and its annexures, approved by Cabinet in 2009, establish more effective
 measures and mechanisms to coordinate the conduct of international relations and the implementation of South Africa’s foreign policy.
1.3.2 The National Information Security Policy , approved by Cabinet in 1996, provides the minimum standards for security.
1.3.3 The White Paper on Foreign Policy , approved by Cabinet in 2011, assesses South Africa’s foreign policy against the rising expectations of the critical role of foreign policy to meet
 domestic priorities.
1.3.4 Foreign Service Dispensation (FSD) is implemented in terms of the provisions of Section 3(3) (c) of the Public Service Act, 1994 (Act 103 of 1994), as amended, and is applicable to
 designated employees who serve in a foreign country at a South African mission abroad and fall within the scope of the Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council (PSCBC).
 The FSD consists mainly of two measures, namely remunerative me asures (South Africa) and compensatory measures and other foreign-service benefits at the missions.
2. UPDATES TO INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
The revival of the process on the Partnership Fund for Development Bill
The Partnership Fund for Development Bill aimed at repealing the African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act (51 of 2000) will be revived. DIRCO continues to support South
Africa’s outgoing development cooperation policy by providing funding and technical support for development initiatives.
3. UPDATES TO RELEVANT COURT RULINGS
In matters of the Supreme Court:
Government of the Republic of South Africa & Others v Von Abo 2011
The Supreme Court of Appeal decided that South African citizens have no right to diplomatic protection, but that citizens have the right to request government to provide diplomatic protection and
that government had an obligation to consider such a request. The impact of the decision is that government is required to act rationally and in good faith when receiving requests for diplomatic
protection. Government will, however, not be liable for damages resulting from the conduct of a foreign state as it falls outside the control of government.
Mr R Gangat v Minister of DIRCO
The Court held that the Minister has the right to recall/transfer ambassadors/diplomats from their postings in terms of the Public Service Act, 1994, if it is in the public interest to do so. The
decision provides clarity in respect of who has the authority to take decisions on recall.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
16
Law Society of SA v President of the RSA & 2 Others (SADC Tribunal case)
The Court found that the President’s participation in the suspension of the tribunal, as well as his signing of the 2014 Protocol on the Tribunal, which removed individual access and human rights
jurisdiction, were unconstitutional. The impact of the judgment is that the President is required to act rationally and lawfully in making decisions in respect of the conclusion and withdrawal from
international agreements.
DA v Minister of DIRCO (Grace Mugabe case)
The Court held that the granting of diplomatic immunity to family members of sitting presidents was unlawful and invalid both in terms of international and domestic law. The court case provided
clarity in this matter.
NEHAWU obo Lebethe v Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
The Labour Court ruled that the payment of foreign service allowances is directly linked to the fact that a transferred official was posted to a foreign country and that the allowances were paid
to enable him/her to discharge work that has been designated and has to be done. The impact of the decision is that the transferred official is not be entitled to the payment of these allowances
as part of normal remuneration and would only be entitled thereto when the work designated to be done is being done. This necessitates the official to be stationed in the foreign country and
therefore, as a statutory entitlement, the transferred official would only be entitled to the allowances for as long as he/she is stationed in the foreign country. These allowances are compensatory
in nature and are not regarded as part of a transferred official’s remuneration or monthly salary.
DA v Minister of International Relations and Cooperation (International Criminal Court withdrawal)
Government’s actions were found to have failed to adhere and were inconsistent with South Africa’s obligations in terms of the Rome Statute and the Implementation Act, and thus unlawful. The
impact of the decision is that Government can be held liable for failure to comply with its international obligations in terms of international law.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
18
PART B: OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
20
4. UPDATED SITUATIONAL ANALYSIS
4.1 External environment analysis
South Africa's foreign policy vision is to achieve an African continent that is peaceful, democratic, non-racial, non-sexist, united and prosperous and which contributes to a world that is just and
equitable. South Africa pursues this policy vision, guided by the African values of Ubuntu and the central goal to eradicate the triple challenge of inequality, poverty and unemployment.
The strategic focus of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) is guided by the National Development Plan (NDP): Vision 2030, as unpacked in the Medium-Term
Strategic Framework (MTSF) 2019 – 2024, which is in line with the African Union's (AU) Agenda 2063 and the United Nation's (UN) Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (SDGs) Agenda. The
department is further guided by the policy directives of South Africa's political principals, especially the President's State of the Nation (SONA) Address.
The Sixth Administration identified seven priorities, which are contained in the MTSF. During the execution of South Africa's foreign policy, DIRCO will contribute to all seven MTSF priorities, but
focus on the seventh priority, "A Better Africa and World". DIRCO will implement its mandate, which requires the formulation, promotion and execution of South Africa's foreign policy by means
of traditional political diplomacy complemented by, among others, economic diplomacy. This approach will enable DIRCO to increasingly contribute, in a more direct and concrete manner, to
inclusive economic growth, improving the capabilities of South Africans and a capable state.
During 2020/21, South Africa, like most of the world, was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in lengthy lockdowns. As a result, DIRCO, and especially its missions, were unable
to deliver on predetermined objectives, necessitating a new virtual way of conducting business and diplomacy.
While the COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the need for greater international cooperation to address global challenges, especially for developing countries, the economic and social impact
of the pandemic has constrained the ability of many governments to make greater financial commitments to issues such as peacekeeping, given that domestic recovery plans take priority. This
could impact future funding for peacekeeping on the continent and also on support for the AU’
 s and United Nations’ (UN) goals, such as Agenda 2063 and the SDGs.
During 2021/22, DIRCO will continue to contribute to regional and continental integration and the development and diversification of South Africa's internal markets through accessing foreign
direct investment (FDI), expanding trade relations and improving tourism to South Africa. In this regard, DIRCO will continue to advance South Africa's economic cooperation with its immediate
region and the African continent by contributing to the consolidation of trade and economic relations through ratification of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)-
Southern African Development Community (SADC)-East African Community (EAC) Tripartite FTA (TFTA) and the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA).
The 13th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of AU Heads of State and Government, which was held virtually on 5 December 2020, decided that the continent would commence preferential
trading under the AfCFTA on 1 January 2021. The commencement of trading under the AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-Africa trade, which currently stands at approximately 16% with Africa’s
share of world trade estimated to be at only 3%. In addition, the AfCFTA presents Africa with an opportunity to expand its export base and to be less reliant on the export of primary commodities,
which are volatile and highly dependent on the growth trends in global markets.
Currently, South Africa’s primary export destination in Africa is the southern and eastern regions. The AfCFTA presents South Africa with an opportunity for expansion to new markets in West
and North Africa, and provides South Africa with alternative markets for the export of value-added goods, as well as services.
According to statistics provided by the South African Revenue Service and the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition, South Africa's total bilateral trade with Africa in 1994 stood at
R114 billion. By 2018, 24 years later, South Africa's total bilateral trade with the continent stood at over R488 billion, with exports to Africa accounting for R332.65 billion and imports from Africa
accounting for R156.09 billion, resulting in a favourable trade balance, with a surplus of R176.55 billion for South Africa. The African continent accounts for 26.67% of South Africa's total global
exports, 12.63% of South Africa's total global imports and 19.68% of South Africa's total global trade portfolio. About 80% of South Africa's trade with the continent remains with the SADC region.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
21
Economic prospects for 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in diminished global growth. It is not clear when the global economic situation will start to improve, but it can be expected that this will not be soon, as
many countries are still trying to contain the pandemic in the absence of a vaccine, thereby necessitating the diversion of funds from the economic to the medical sector, in order to provide the
required equipment and facilities. It is hoped that global growth, trade and investment will stabilise during 2021. It is clear that COVID-19 has had a severe economic impact worldwide. Prior to
COVID-19, South Africa's economic growth was already under pressure due to ailing state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and public debt. This situation has been exacerbated by the pandemic.
Global environment and trends
Having recognised the focus of the NDP, MTSF and South Africa's foreign policy objectives, DIRCO has to contend with an environment that is interlinked with regional, continental and global
developments, fluctuations and disruptions.
The emergence of new powers and shifting power dynamics among nations have resulted in a shift away from cold-war and post-cold-war global dynamics. South Africa's foreign policy is
implemented within a highly dynamic and challenging global environment, which at times is unpredictable. The current global environment is characterised by  a rise  of new  technologies and
increased technological asymmetry; rising terrorism and violent extremism; tensions over the peaceful use of nuclear weapons; threats of the illegal use of force; transnational organised crime;
the displacement of populations due to civil conflict;  global irregular and illegal migration due to conflicts, poverty and  inequality, perpetuated by pandemics and famine brought on by climate
change; the rise in populism; tensions over the control of strategic resources and geopolitical influence; and trade wars.
The issue of the equal distribution of a soon-to-be ”approved for distribution” COVID-19 vaccine, especially to countries of the South, is a source of concern. Due to the growing trajectory of the
Coronavirus, countries who cannot afford to participate in the global value chain for the acquisition of vaccines will likely refocus their resources on domestic medical and non-medical solutions
to reduce infections of the growing COVID-19 pandemic and withdraw from global initiatives. This will therefore lead to reprioritisation of national resources, leading to demand for aid and budget
support.
There has also been an increasing trend towards unilateralism, protectionism, nationalism, populism, rising tensions between the United States of America (USA) and China and an inward-
looking focus on countries’ domestic priorities. According to the Stratfor Global Intelligence 2021 Annual Forecast, the geopolitical environment in 2021 will be shaped by two global developments:
the trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic and the efforts by US President Joe Biden's administration to restore collaborative relationships across the globe.
Multiple COVID-19 vaccines have reached or are near-final stages of approval. And while vaccine roll-outs will begin in the first quarter of 2021, their widespread administration in Western
countries will likely take most of the year, if not longer. The roll-out in emerging markets and developing countries, however, will last deep into 2022 – dashing hopes for a full global economic
recovery in 2021, while exacerbating underlying structural issues related to debt sustainability, economic inequality and poverty. As a result of changes in the US administration there will be a
shift from the previous unilateral and transactional approach to international relations.
Global gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 2021 is projected at 4% – 5%, with China contributing roughly one-third of that growth. Recovery elsewhere is expected to be uneven, with much
of the world not reaching pre-pandemic GDP levels until 2022, including probably the USA and Europe.
COVID-19 and the energy transition will continue to foment internal incoherence among the world's oil producers, limiting the ability of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) and its allies (also known as OPEC+) to manage global oil production and reduce inventories.
Economic activity will improve across Europe in 2021, but differences in performance between the North and the South will play out against long-standing economic fault lines. Northern
European countries will probably recover most of the COVID-19-related losses of 2020 in terms of GDP, employment, production, consumption and investment, while in the South most of these
indicators will remain below pre-pandemic levels.
The United Kingdom will focus its post-Brexit foreign policy on negotiating free trade agreements around the world, but progress will be uneven.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
22
In addition, the following developments/tends for 2021/22 should be noted:
• The rekindling of relations between African countries with Israel, supported by the USA, will change the continental geo-politics and the pursuit of an African inspiration as espoused in
Agenda 2063.
• Countries such as Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are making in-roads in Africa and forging strategic partners with some African countries to gain influence on the
continent.
• Morocco is continuing to gain support for its autonomy initiative on Western Sahara despite numerous United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolutions calling for a referendum on the
status of Western Sahara. This is a reflection of declining international interest in the Saharawi people’s right to self-determination, including in the African Union (AU) and Non-Aligned
Movement (NAM). Despite the declining interest, South Africa is still determined to support Western Sahara in its quest for self-determination.
• Increasing presence of foreign military bases on the African soil, especially on the East African shoreline and the Horn of Africa, with countries such as Sudan, Somalia, Djibouti and Eritrea
being regarded as ideal locations for such bases due to their strategic military locations next to major shipping lanes.
• Businesses and governments worldwide will be increasingly confronted with the impact of the following:
 o Climate change.
 o Equal access to the COVID-19 vaccine.
 o Impact of Brexit.
 o Terrorist groups in the Sahel, Nigeria, Somalia and the insurgents in Mozambique, are spreading their operations beyond their traditional operational bases.
 o Hotspots on the continent include Ethiopia (Tigray region), the ongoing political and conflict situations in the Great Lakes region (Democratic Republic of Congo); the Horn of Africa,
the Sahel (Mali and Libya), the Lake Chad Basin, Sudan and South Sudan, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Morocco and the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic. These threaten the long-term
visions of a peaceful, democratic, prosperous and integrated continent.
Technological developments
The Fourth Industrial Revolution (41R) is transforming lives. The ongoing unprecedented rapid development of new technology, in particular the fifth generation wireless technology for digital
cellular networks, the Internet of Things, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (AI), means that South Africa must continuously assess what the positive and negative impact would be for
the country to ensure a resilient future. It is readily accepted that the rapid innovation, development and diffusion of new technology can act as a disrupter of traditional power dynamics, through
such aspects as the manipulation of personal data and biometric technology. Political and economic systems, via social media platforms, can also be subjected to gross manipulation through
software, typically Internet bats such as social bats, votebots and clickbots and through "fake news" and increasingly also "deep fakes". Software (malware) can also be specifically designed
to disrupt, damage or gain unauthorised access to a computer system in the private and public sectors and can be used for nefarious purposes such as cyber-attacks and espionage and the
application of lethal autonomous weapons systems, among others. Although the threats posed by new technology seemingly derive from their application, in the long term there is the potential
that AI may replace a significant portion of the human labour force. This is a threat if the labour force is not reskilled.
These "tech" and other challenges are often transnational in nature, making it impossible for individual states to effectively respond on their own, thus requiring collective action through
diplomatic engagement. In this regard, multilateralism would have to continue to be a key aspect of international relations with the UN, globally, and the AU, continentally, aiming to provide and
maintain a rules-based international system.
DIRCO is required to strategically navigate South Africa's course through these complex international waters, bearing in mind the country's own interests and those of the continent in pursuit of
Pan-Africanism, the diplomacy of Ubuntu and progressive internationalism. DIRCO's ability to do so will depend, among other things, on its multilateral and bilateral relations.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
23
Multilateralism
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa's foreign policy. South Africa's multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance its national interest and safeguard its national
positions, as well as advance the development priorities of developing countries and promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system, as identified in Priority Seven of the MTSF. In order
to influence multilateral processes to reflect and advance these priorities, South Africa must be represented in multilateral fora to engage, influence, negotiate and articulate its positions with
the aim to have these positions reflected in the outcomes of multilateral meetings and processes. In this regard, South Africa will utilise its status as incoming Chairperson of the SADC Organ
Troika in 2021 and subsequent role as Chair in 2022 to promote the agenda of a peaceful SADC region.
It would appear that multilateralism is increasingly under threat, resulting in stalemates on issues in fora such as the UN, International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organisation, World Bank,
World Intellectual Property Organisation and World Health Organisation.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, virtually no face-to-face meetings have taken place. When the pandemic subsides, there will be an enormous backlog of face-to-face multilateral meetings
to resume, suspended negotiations, on an expedited basis, at a time when South Africa’s fiscus is severely constrained, rendering it impossible to send officials to all the engagements and
processes where our country is traditionally expected to play a role. Creative solutions and heightened interdepartmental coordination are required, to deliver on our foreign policy objectives and
avoid surrendering the positions and influence we have built up over decades. This, at a time when the new Foreign Service Act, 2019 comes into force, bring new responsibilities for DIRCO
into focus.
South Africa needs to review certain relationships and alliances in a pragmatic way to better realise its foreign policy objectives. This will require a re-evaluation of all previous assumptions,
in the realisation that there are and will be fundamental shifts in the global political and economic environment i.e. the global trend away from multilateralism to unilateral-centred international
relations and being able to adapt to fluidity in the global environment.
DIRCO will continue to monitor international responses to the pandemic and identify best practices, opportunities and threats that will assist government to determine how best to support the
policy and practical interventions to reposition the country in the post-pandemic global economy.
Institutional reform
South Africa's engagement with the UN is based on its commitment to promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system and is informed by the recognition that the UN does not reflect current
global political and economic realities. A key priority in South Africa's engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the existing global governance architecture with a view to improving
the voice and representation of Africa and the developing world, as well as the responsiveness of the UN system to the needs of and challenges faced by Africa and developing states.
Promotion of cooperation between the United Nations and the African Union
On 1 January 2019, South Africa joined the UNSC for a third term, as an elected member for the period 2019 to 2020. Membership of the UNSC placed South Africa at the epicentre of
international decision-making on peace and security matters and enabled South Africa to promote its views and values regarding, among others, the importance of women in peace and security;
championing the cause of children in armed conflict situations; the rule of law at national and international levels; post-conflict reconstruction and development; and the peaceful resolution of
conflict while fighting impunity. During its term on the UNSC, South Africa brought attention to issues such as preventative diplomacy and the nexus between peace and development. South
Africa's tenure on the UNSC also presented opportunities to exploit the current fissures in long-standing Western alliances and to review and redefine strategic partners and positions in a manner
that complements the African Agenda.
In February 2020, South Africa assumed the Chair of the AU Assembly of Heads of State and Government. Its tenure as Chair ended in February 2021. During its tenure, amid the COVID-19
pandemic, South Africa took concrete action towards the effective implementation of the theme of the year, namely “Silencing the Guns”, which allowed simultaneous leverage at continental and
international levels, particularly with regard to conflict resolution and the stabilisation of post-conflict situations on the African continent. During the 14th Extraordinary Session of the AU Assembly
(Virtual) on Silencing the Guns in Africa on 6 December 2020, the Johannesburg Declaration on “Silencing the Guns: Creating Conducive Conditions for Africa’s Development”, extending the

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
24
AU Master Roadmap of Practical Steps for Silencing the Guns in Africa for a period of 10 years (2021 – 2030), with periodic reviews every two years, as well as extending the commemoration
and conduct of the Africa Month during September of each year for a period of 10 years (2021 –2030), was adopted.
South Africa will therefore be expected to comply with these outcomes going forward and as part of her commitment to the management and resolution of conflict on the continent, first as a
member state and also as a member of the Troika.
To promote peace, security and stability on the continent, South Africa used its simultaneous presence in the UNSC and its position as Chair of the AU's Assembly of Heads of State and
Government to strengthen cooperation between the UN and the AU. This demanded from South Africa, as an African state that embraces democratic and principled values, which are grounded
in its Constitution, to skillfully manage contradictory expectations from AU and UN member states. Mechanisms and institutional arrangements are in place to improve relations between the AU
and the UN, such as bi-annual meetings between the UNSC and the AU Peace and Security Council (PSC). In this regard, in South Africa’s capacity as President of the UNSC for the month
of December 2020, President Ramaphosa presided over the UNSC high-level debate on the cooperation between the UN and regional and subregional organisations on 4 December 2020.
South Africa also prioritised the implementation of the Joint UN-AU Framework for an Enhanced Partnership in Peace and Security, which emphasises the prevention and mediation of conflict
and sustaining peace, responding to conflict, addressing root causes and the continuous review and enhancement of the partnership.
Disarmament
To promote peace, security and stability on the continent, South Africa uses its accession to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) to advocate for the early entry into force
of the treaty and commemorate the entry into force of the Pelindaba Treaty, which remains one of the building blocks towards a world free of nuclear weapons. South Africa also used its tenure
in the UNSC to promote nuclear disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and arms control, including efforts geared towards the silencing of the guns on the African continent in line with the
2020-programme of the AU. South Africa continued to advocate for the UN to invest more resources in the implementation of the UN's Programme of Action on combatting illicit trade in small
arms and light weapons and continued to call upon all member states to sign and ratify the Arms Trade Treaty, as the only legally binding instrument for promoting transparency and cooperation
in the area of conventional weapons.
Terrorism
In the wake of recent terror attacks across the world, countering international terrorism remains high on the agenda of the UN. The abuse of the Internet and social media platforms for recruitment
and planning attacks, radicalisation of the youth and violent extremism leading to terrorist attacks, are gaining increased attention. Terrorism and violent extremism also pose a serious threat to
socio-economic development on the African continent. South Africa's commitment to combatting international terrorism under the auspices of the UN and the AU is reflected in its participation
in counter-terrorism structures, presenting it with an opportunity to promote national and continental positions on this growing agenda.
Climate change
Human-influenced climate change is occurring at a very high rate. Despite the international community's ongoing fight against climate change, which kicked off during June 1992 in Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, at the second Earth Summit, global warming is continuing to escalate. South Africa assumed the Chairship of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on
Climate Change in 2020, representing Africa in the UN Secretary-General's Climate Summit. This platform presents an opportunity to contribute to shaping the narrative and influenc1ng the
global response in line with our priorities. In this context, South Africa's position on climate change has been defined, considering its national objectives and premised on a science- and rules-
based international system with multilateralism at its core. South Africa advocates for a global response that is equitable and that provides development space for developing countries, while
developed countries take the lead in emission reductions, closing the ambition gap, including those carried over from the pre-2020 to the post-2020 period and providing adequate means of
implementation that will enable a response to the challenge.
South-South and North-South cooperation
DIRCO will continue to contribute to the facilitation of economic growth and development through regional and continental integration and will, therefore, continue to build relationships with

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
25
partners in the North and South, despite the huge gap between major and middle powers on the one hand and developing countries on the other hand.
South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among countries and groupings of the South to develop common positions on political, economic, social and human rights issues as an
effective response in addressing the historic marginalisation of these countries. Groupings of the South share the need to restructure the global political, economic and financial architecture to
be more balanced, representative, inclusive and equitable, as well as to ensure that the international system rests on the important pillars of multilateralism and international law. South Africa
will also continue to use its membership and bilateral and multilateral engagements with groupings of the South to support foreign policy objectives; advocate for strong, mutually beneficial
South-South cooperation; advocate for focussed regional integration in fast-growing markets; and strengthen regional cooperation in areas of interest with countries of the South. Groupings of
the South include BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa); IBSA (India, Brazil and South Africa); lORA (Indian Ocean Rim Association); the Group of 77 (G77) and China; and the
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
The BRICS alliance is being challenged by significant shifts to the right in India and Brazil with allegiances closer now to the USA. Tensions have also increased between China and India. Brazil
still formally supports multilateralism in BRICS outcome documents, but leans to nationalism, unilateralism and protectionism.
South Africa should leverage strategic regional groupings such as BRICS, IBSA and IORA to improve trade flows and build consensus in multilateral groupings.
South Africa engages with key global economic processes such as the WTO, the WB, IMF, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), WIPO, the Group of Seven (G7)
and the World Economic Forum (WEF), to promote African Agenda 2063, in particular, and the broader development interests of developing countries in general. South Africa will also continue
to facilitate and monitor the implementation of existing mechanisms such as the Joint Africa-European Union (EU) Strategy, which provides a framework for relations between Africa and the
EU and the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD), an international conference led by the Japanese Government and co-sponsored by the UN, the UN Development
Programme (UNDP), the AU Commission (AUC) and the WB.
Relations with regions of the world
In line with the focus on economic growth and sustainable socio-economic development, DIRCO negotiates and navigates international trends beyond its immediate region and the continent.
Over the last decade, the importance of building trade and investment relations with new poles of economic growth in the world, has become ever more compelling. This inexorable change in
the economic geography of the world economy requires a more purposeful effort to diversify South Africa's trade and investment relations to benefit from the rapid and dynamic economic growth
in the Global South. DIRCO's international network of missions is a strategic asset that is being leveraged to realise maximum return on the investment it represents for the people of South
Africa. However, the full impact of COVID-19 on these relations should yet be determined.
Constrained FDI and investment flows, protectionism and the impact of US sanctions on (secondary) Iran and Huawei, have impacted on the South African domestic economy, for example the
telecommunication sector. South Africa should avoid taking sides on the growing tensions between China and the USA, to avoid compromising trade and investment with either country.
The African continent
South Africa remains a relevant and significant player in issues relating to the regional agenda. This role is played both through bilateral and multilateral platforms. The ability to contribute to
humanitarian relief efforts, peace and mediation initiatives positions the country in a strategic pole of influence.
Despite remaining pockets of instability and insecurity mainly due to intra-state conflict on the continent, improved political stability positively impacted on democracy and good governance,
contributing to increasing sustainable economic development. South Africa should continue to advocate for the strengthening of the key pillars of the African Peace and Security Architecture
(APSA), which is regarded as pivotal to Africa’s endeavours to take collective responsibility and ownership of the continent’s peace, security and development agenda.
According to updated forecasts from the African Development Bank (AfDB), published in its African Economic Outlook supplement, on 7 July 2020, Africa’s economic growth could rebound in
2021, provided that governments manage the COVID-19 infection rate well. In a comprehensive socio-economic assessment of the pandemic’s impact, the AfDB said growth was now projected
to rebound to 3% in 2021 from -3.4% in the worst-case scenario for 2020.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
26
The predictions are contained in a supplement to the bank’s African Economic Outlook, which was released on 30 January 2021. At the time, Africa’s growth was forecast at 3.9% in 2020 and
4.1% in 2021. The supplement cautioned that the growth outlook for 2021 and beyond would depend largely on African governments’ effectiveness in flattening the curve of the outbreak and
policies to reopen economies.
The supplement noted that the curve of the pandemic in Africa was flattening gradually. However, COVID-19 remains a serious threat to lives and livelihoods, given weak healthcare systems
and limited social protection. The continent also remains vulnerable to other regional threats such as the locust swarms that have struck East Africa, as well as to extreme climate events.
Under projected scenarios for contraction of growth, Africa could lose between US$145.5 billion and US$189.7 billion of GDP in 2020, according to the publication.
Hanan Morsy, Director of the Macroeconomic Policy, Forecasting and Research Department at the AfDB, said: “The African Economic Outlook 2020 supplement shows that for the first time in
the last half-century, Africa would be facing an economic recession as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. This would affect the gains achieved in poverty reduction as an estimated 49 million
Africans could be pushed into poverty, with about 30 million jobs at the verge of disappearing. Policymakers need to act fast to alleviate the impact of the crisis on vulnerable groups through well
targeted social safety net measures.”
According to Morsy, the supplement projected that the number of people in extreme poverty in Africa (using the US$1.90 international poverty line) could reach 453.4 million in 2020 as a result
of the pandemic, compared to 425.2 million under the no-outbreak scenario.
Africa is the world's youngest continent with around 60% of the population currently under the age of 25. Within the next two generations, it is expected that this youthful population will increase
more than 180%, compared to that of Europe and Asia, which will shrink by more than 21% and by almost 28% respectively. By 2034, the region is expected to have a larger workforce than
either China or India and towards the end of the century, it is estimated that Africa's youth population will reach 1.3 billion, double the expected total population of Europe, and will represent
almost half of the world’s youth (Mo Ibrahim Foundation). According to a recent report by the OECD, “Africa’s Urbanization Dynamics 2020: Africapolis, Mapping a New Urban Geography”, Africa
is one of the least urbanized places in the world and its urbanisation rate will continue to grow among the fastest of the world regions in the coming years. In 1950, Africa’s urban population was
27 million people, a minute fraction of today’s urban population of roughly 567 million people. Notably, the OECD report argues that since 1990, Africa’s rapid growth in urbanisation has been
driven primarily by high population growth and the reclassification of rural settlements. It also predicts that Africa’s population will double between now and 2050, and two-thirds of this population
increase will be absorbed by urban areas. It is therefore imperative that with millions of young people joining the labour market, pressure to provide quality jobs will escalate.
A healthy and educated working age population will be the cornerstone of sustained and inclusive economic success on the continent but will depend on faster economic growth. This will be
possible if the drivers of growth could change. Manufacturing, infrastructure development, telecommunications, energy, transport, logistics and technology are sectors that have huge investment
potential for the continent. The agricultural sector also has the potential to become a driver of economic growth.
According to WEF (Africa), South Africa and the continent should, among others, focus on greater cooperation and human capital development. Greater African economic integration is of
paramount importance to promote peace and stability while addressing trade obstacles, climate change, corruption, cyber- security and the opportunities and challenges of the 4IR. This
sentiment is echoed by the AfDB that points out that a borderless Africa would lay the foundation for a viable continental market to accelerate growth and allow Africa to be more competitive in
global trade and value chains. It would also allow industries to develop across borders, creating economies of scale for investors as they look at wider integrated markets.
Therefore, the establishment of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), which entered into force on 30 May 2019, is a key priority of Africa's Agenda 2063 and a flagship project for
the continent. According to the AU, the AfCFTA is the world's largest single market of over 1.2 billion consumers with a combined GDP of more than US$3.4 trillion and is poised to stimulate
intra-Africa trade and investment. The importance of the implementation of the AfCFTA for the prosperity of South Africa, the region and the continent, can therefore not be overemphasised.
The SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in political, security and economic integration. To facilitate the process of integration, SADC has developed economic and strategic blueprints, in
particular the SADC Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap as approved by the summit in April 2015. The strategy has been aligned to the AU Agenda 2063. Critical to regional economic
integration is the rapid implementation of the Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA), as well as the AfCFTA, to boost industrial and infrastructure development and enhance intra-regional trade. With
regard to the Southern African Customs Union (SACU), the customs union has to be transformed into a vehicle for regional integration, capable of promoting equitable development, sustainable
infrastructure development and industrialisation.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
27
The TFTA  is the initiative between three regional  economic communities, namely COMESA), the EAC and SADC and will be achieved by amalgamating the economies of the three  regions
with a combined market of 26 countries, which constitute half of the member states of the AU, a population of 625 million people and a combined GDP of US$833 billion. The TFTA is anchored
in three pillars: market integration, infrastructure development and industrial development and is a precursor to the vision of realising an economically integrated continent. SADC and SACU are
primary vehicles to improved regional economic integration and important building blocks for achieving the COMESA-EAC-SADC TFT A and the AfCFTA.
South Africa is generally accepted on the continent and around the globe as an influential state and is the only African country in the G20 and BRICS, as well as being one of the top 10 strategic
partners of the EU. South Africa must continue placing the African continent and the Global South on the agenda of BRICS, to synchronise policies, such as Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development.
South Africa is also a power broker for several conflicts in the subregion and on the continent and continues to participate as a troop-contributing country to AU- and UN-authorised peacekeeping
missions, also being the largest contributor to AU budget and top African contributor to the UN budget. South Africa must continue to promote peace and stability on the continent through
preventative diplomacy, peace-making, peace-building and peacekeeping efforts.
South Africa remains a relevant and significant player in issues relating to the regional agenda. This role is played both through bilateral and multilateral platforms. The ability to contribute to
humanitarian relief efforts, peace and mediation initiatives positions the country in a strategic pole of influence.
Europe and the European Union
The EU, including the Eurozone countries, is the single largest global trading bloc and remains a key and essential international role-player. According to “Trading Economics.com”, the Euro
Area economy shrank 14.7% year-on-year in the three months to June of 2020, slightly less than initial estimates of a 15% fall. Still, it is the biggest contraction on record, pushing the economy to
a recession, as the Coronavirus restrictions hurt most sectors. Household consumption went down 15.9%, investment plunged 21.1% and government spending decreased 2.5%. Also, exports
sank 21.5% and imports dropped 20.7%.
In an interview with the French daily, “Le Monde”, published on 19 October 2020, the President of the European Central Bank (ECB), Christine Lagarde, indicated that the second wave of the
COVID-19 pandemic in Europe, and the resulting new restrictions, were adding to the uncertainty and weighing on the recovery. Since the rebound seen over the summer, the recovery has
been uneven, uncertain and incomplete and now risks losing momentum.
Trade and investment, including support for the President's investment initiative, is the primary focus of diplomatic efforts in this region, with a particular focus on the sectors that can promote
industrialisation and increased beneficiation, and those that can transform South Africa's economy. FDI from Europe is estimated at over R1 trillion with more than 2 000 companies operating
in South Africa, employing South Africans, enhancing their skills and investing in the economy.
Europe has traditionally been the largest source of development cooperation with South Africa. These are focussed on addressing poverty; job creation and inequality; and include programmes
in addressing energy challenges (particularly green and renewable energy); water resources; the ocean's economy; small, medium and micro enterprise development; agriculture; education;
science and technology; and mineral beneficiation. The focus of DIRCO will continue with the consolidation of relations with these regional partners and to promote partnerships in support of
South Africa's domestic priorities. However, there appear to be efforts underway by developed countries to backtrack on their commitments to support developing countries, including South
Africa, in implementing the SDGs across a range of multilateral bodies, on the pretext of channeling resources to COVID-19.
The economic partnership agreements (EPAs) between the EU and African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and regions aim at promoting ACP-EU trade, and ultimately contribute,
through trade and investment, to sustainable development and poverty reduction. Trade with ACP countries represents more than 5% of EU imports and exports. The EU is a major trading
partner for ACP countries.
To manage its relations with the ACP, SADC developed a Common Position Paper, focussing on three pillars, namely trade and investment, development cooperation and political dialogue and
advocacy.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
28
South Africa played a key role in the development of the SADC Common Position and supported the SADC approach, including that the new ACP mandate should place greater centrality and
focus on its three distinct regions (Africa, Caribbean and Pacific) as the "regional building blocks" for the ACP.  Consequently, in the case of Africa, emphasis should be placed on advancing the
regional integration processes in SADC and on Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want.
The EU is the SADC EPA group’s largest trading partner, with South Africa accounting for the largest part of EU imports to and EU exports from the region.
The SADC-EU EPA covers trade and investment issues and regional integration efforts. Recently, the EU indicated that the EPAs would also form the legal framework under which it would
incorporate support for the achievement of the SDGs and support for climate change projects. This undertaking represents a move beyond the donor/recipient relationship towards long-term
cooperation on jointly identified, mutual and complementary interests, based on the principles of equality, ownership, partnership, solidarity , complementarity, subsidiarity and proportionality.
The SADC EPA countries' main export product to the EU is diamonds. Other products from the region include agricultural products, oil and aluminium. South Africa's exports to the EU are
more diversified and range from fruit to platinum and from manufactured goods to wine. The EU exports a wide range of goods to SADC EPA countries, including vehicles, machinery, electrical
equipment, pharmaceuticals and processed food.
On the continental level, the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership provides an overarching long-term framework for intercontinental relations aimed at promoting economic cooperation, sustainable
development, peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity for the benefit of its members.
South Africa and the Americas
The USA’s economic position is still healthy according to the key economic indicators, despite the impact of COVID-19. GDP growth will slow down from 3% in 2018 to 2% in 2020 and 1.8% in
2021 according a forecast released at the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting in June 2019. The projected slowdown in 2019 and beyond is a side effect of the trade war.
Although SACU was unable to conclude a free trade agreement with the USA, a cooperative trade arrangement has been concluded, namely the Trade, Investment and Development Cooperation
Agreement (TIDCA) that would build on the trade benefits offered under the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). In this context, DIRCO will seek to extend and deepen the benefits of
AGOA and work to ensure that the engagement with the USA supports regional integration in southern Africa.
“Deglobalisation” in the USA and the Trump Administration’s “America First” world view was being driven by the perception that globalisation is responsible for job losses, income reduction,
increased welfare costs, as well as cultural incompatibility among immigrants in the country.
As a major trade and investment partner and a global technology leader, a retreat by the USA from globalisation could adversely affect South Africa’s objectives to attract greater levels of
FDI, enhance value-added exports and engage with the 4IR in support of the country’s economic recovery efforts. The USA’ leaning more and more towards protectionism has resulted in the
imposition of tariffs on South Africa’s exports of steel and aluminum and a review of our eligibility for Generalised System of Preferences (GSP). Also, increasing US pressure for FTAs with African
countries poses a threat to the AU’s agenda for greater regional integration in the context of the AfCFTA.
According to the IMF, economic activity in Latin America and the Caribbean remains sluggish. Real GDP is expected to grow by 2.3% in 2020. The weak momentum reflects is due to, among
others, elevated domestic policy uncertainty in some large economies, heightened by the US-China trade tensions, and somewhat lower global growth, among others, due to COVID-19.
The SACU-Southern Common Market (Mercosur) Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) entered into force in 2016. Opportunities for investment remain abundant and close cooperation with
current governments within the region continue to be beneficial to South Africa. South African imports from Brazil amounted to US$1.19 billion during 2019, according to the UN COMTRADE
database on international trade (updated October 2020), while imports from South Africa in Brazil decreased to US$38.83 million in September from US$39.69 million in August 2020.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
29
Asia and the Middle East
South Africa maintains strong political relations with the countries of Asia and the Middle East and these partnerships tangibly contribute towards progress on the priorities identified in the NDP.
It is against these targets that DIRCO aims to execute a more assertive economic strategy towards the region based on South Africa's national priorities, within the parameters of South-South
solidarity and development cooperation.
South African diplomatic engagements in the region focus on gaining access to new markets for manufactured products and market access negotiations for South African agricultural products
are being pursued with a number of countries. South African economic diplomacy efforts focus on market entry and positioning of South African companies to benefit from the favourable growth
and future economic growth projections of the region. The region also provides opportunities for skills development and training collaboration in line with the priorities identified in the National
Skills Development Strategy.
South Africa's strategy of engagement with Asia and the Middle East is pursued with a subregional focus along the following Iines:
• South-East Asia is a dynamic and vibrant region characterised by high rates of economic growth and development. The region thus represents a major growing market for value-added
South African exports, especially within the manufacturing and consumer goods sectors. Further areas of expansion are envisaged within the financial services, mining equipment and
technology, agro-processing and defence procurement sectors. Many countries have invested in the South African economy and further FDI will be identified, as well as exploring training
opportunities in those areas where South Africa experiences skills shortages. The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, signed South Africa’s instrument
of accession to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ (ASEAN) Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in November 2020, indicating South Africa's intentions to strengthen ties with South-
East Asia in general, and with the ASEAN in particular.
• South Africa enjoys strong political, economic and technical relations with the countries in the East Asia and Oceania region. Bilateral relations with countries in the region are pursued in
line with priorities highlighted in the NDP and 2019 SONA. South Africa's trade and investment relations with the region are strong and growing, but there is substantial room for expansion.
Tourism from the region, in particular, has huge potential to contribute to South Africa's GDP. The region is home to some of South Africa's biggest investment partners and cooperation
contributes to industrialisation, job creation, science and technology, infrastructure development and skills development.
• South Africa remains committed to a stable and peaceful Middle East and supports sustainable and just solutions to the various conflicts in the region. The region is an important component
of South Africa's global trade and is a critical energy partner to South Africa. The strong focus on investment will be continued in the objectives pursued in 2020 to 2025 through South
Africa's diplomatic engagement with the region. South Africa remains committed to supporting the two-State solution and the people of Palestine.
4.2 Internal environment analysis
The department is committed to sound corporate governance and has developed various internal control mechanisms to strengthen corporate governance. Internally, there are various
management structures and committees in place with terms of reference that meet on a regular basis. These management structures serve as mechanisms to improve corporate governance
and decision-making and enhance communication.
The department has fully functioning assurance units such as Risk Management and Internal Audit. These units are supported by the Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee, both
chaired by independent (external) chairpersons. The department can report that both committees are contributing positively to the risk and audit management processes in the department.
The department continues to deliver a world-class protocol service to the President, Deputy President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International Relations and Cooperation, as well as other
Cabinet ministers. It also provides an advisory service to all spheres of government on all matters related to protocol.
The Diplomatic Academy and International School is a certified training provider and offers Public Service Education and Training Authority-accredited training programmes. In addition, the
Diplomatic Academy and International School subscribes to the International Standards Organisation (ISO 9001) for its quality management systems and is certified by the South African Bureau
of Standards.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
30
Despite the above, it should be noted that the Annual Performance Plan is to be delivered in an environment that is still characterised by fiscal constraints, recurring qualified audit outcomes and
an information and communications technology infrastructure that is in urgent need of an upgrade. In the 2019/20 financial audit, the department was qualified on current receivables. Although
the department has been qualified on the financial statements, it has received an unqualified audit opinion on predetermined objectives. Due to the nature of departmental operations, it has
to contend with foreign currency fluctuations, resulting in foreign exchange losses, due to the depreciation of the Rand against other major foreign currencies, which negatively impacts on the
department.
The department has been engaging in a process of organisational renewal as a tool to assist the organisation to achieve its identified strategic objectives for the next five years. This has required
of the department to review and finalise its organisational structure to align the structure with its strategic plan and the priorities of the MTSF 2019 – 2024. It will require the department to
implement effective financial management through the application of good financial management systems, including management accounting, financial accounting, supply chain management,
and risk and internal controls, in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act 1 of 1999). Strategic focus is also being given to ensure digital transformation of
business capabilities to enable efficient delivery of the department's mandate in a smart and secure manner.
Due to the shortfall on the Compensation of Employees (CoE) budget, vacancies cannot be filled, which may impact negatively on service delivery and the achievement of the department's
mandate. In order to mitigate the associated risks on the shortfall of the CoE, the department will focus on upskilling and reskilling its human resources. In addition, responding to the challenges
posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department is engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on a non-residential basis, in a bid to contain
costs.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
32
PART C:   MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE

5. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME 1: ADMINISTRATION
Purpose: Provide strategic leadership, management and support services to the department
Description: Provide the leadership and support functions that enable the department to effectively and efficiently engage in its international activities
The key focus of the programme:
• maintains good financial management practices in order to sustain unqualified/clean audit outcomes
• addresses the skills and developmental needs of its officials, and supports the international relations competencies of partner departments
• provides legal and policy advice related to domestic and international law
• acts as primary counsel on international law matters for the Government as a whole
• acts as official custodian and depositary of the South African Treaty collection
• supports the effective administration of the department, specifically through the provision of legal advice, legal services and assistance relating to all aspects of a legislative,
operational and departmental nature at Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions, and by managing the litigation cases against and by the department in South
Africa and abroad
• creates an enabling environment for effective implementation of policies focussed on gender, youth and people with disabilities
• independently examines and evaluates the ongoing internal governance processes and provides counsel and recommendations for improvement, whenever there are gaps identified
and risk management.
Subprogrammes
Ministry
Purpose: Provide political leadership
Departmental Management
Purpose: Provide strategic and administrative support to the department
Audit Services
Purpose: Monitor the development and implementation of effective and efficient internal control systems
Financial Management
Purpose: Provide financial management services
Corporate Services
Purpose: Provide effective, efficient and economical support services to the department
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development (DTRD)
Purpose: Provide diplomatic training, facilitate the provision of functional training in the department and conduct research
Foreign Fixed Assets Management
Purpose: Provide and manage the State’s fixed assets foreign portfolio
Office Accommodation
Purpose: Manage the local property portfolio

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
35
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
A modern, effective department, with capable and skilled employees, which is
committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy
Improved
organisational
functioning
Enhanced
digital
environment
New Indicator
Adopted Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Monitor and
review the
Digital Strategy
Monitor and
review the
Digital Strategy
Number of
progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan towards
an unqualified
audit opinion
New Indicator
Unqualified
audit opinion
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Position the
Diplomatic
Academy as
a  centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
Three
identified
aspects of
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
implemented
New Indicator
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Gap analysis
and develop
implementation
plan on building
institutional
capacity to
deliver the AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
deliverer of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
deliverer of AU/
UN languages
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Framework
for building
partnerships
and networks
developed
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners
to enrich
training
programmes
of the
Academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners
to enrich
training
programmes
of the
Academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners
to enrich
training
programmes
of the
Academy
Mainstream-
ing of gen-
der, youth
and people
with disabil-
ities
Number of
initiatives to
mainstream
gender,
youth and
people with
disabilities
New Indicator
Six outreach
initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Six outreach
initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Six  outreach
initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Six  outreach
initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Two
mentoring and
job shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting
youth
Two
mentoring and
job shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting
youth
Two mentoring
and job
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting youth
Two
mentoring and
job shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting
youth
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement
the White
Paper on the
Rights with
Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement
the White
Paper on the
Rights with
Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement
the White
Paper on the
Rights with
Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement
the White
Paper on the
Rights with
Disabilities
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
37
Legal advice
and services
provided in
respect of
international
and
domestic law
Percentage
of  legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% (516) of
legal advice
and services
rendered
100% (941) of
legal advice
and services
rendered
100% (698)
legal services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% legal
services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
38
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Enhanced digital
environment
Four progress reports on
the implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
Number of progress
reports on the Audit
Action Plan towards an
unqualified audit opinion
Four progress reports on
the Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
Three identified aspects
of a centre of excellence
in foreign service training
implemented
Maintain ISO-certified
quality management
system
ISO certificate issued
Two progress reports on
the delivery of AU/UN
languages
One training report on
the delivery of AU/UN
languages
One training report on
the delivery of AU/UN
languages
Two progress reports on
the collaboration with
partners to enrich training
programmes of the
Academy
Status report on the
collaboration with
partners to enrich training
programmes of the
Academy
Status report on the
collaboration with
partners to enrich training
programmes of the
Academy
Number of initiatives to
mainstream gender, youth
and people with disabilities
Six outreach initiatives
to change behaviour in
relation to gender
One outreach initiative
to change behaviour in
relation to gender
Two outreach initiatives
to change behaviour in
relation to gender
Two outreach initiatives
to change behaviour in
relation to gender
One outreach initiative
to change behaviour in
relation to gender
Two mentoring and job
shadowing outreach
initiatives targeting youth
One mentoring and job
shadowing outreach
targeting youth
One mentoring and job
shadowing outreach
initiative targeting youth

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
39
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Two strategic interventions
to strengthen the capacity
of DIRCO to effectively and
equitably implement the
White Paper on the Rights
with Disabilities
One strategic intervention
to strengthen the capacity
of DIRCO to effectively and
equitably implement the
White Paper on the Rights
with Disabilities
One strategic intervention
to strengthen the capacity
of DIRCO to effectively and
equitably implement the
White Paper on the Rights
with Disabilities
Percentage of  legal advice
and services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
40
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) is conscious of the constrained economic climate government and by extension the  organisation is operating under, resulting
in the undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities call for organisational renewal and digitisation to assist the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and the
five-year strategic objectives. This requires that the department be innovative in finding ways to do more with less. It also requires DIRCO to streamline its processes with a specific emphasis on
improving its digital environment through its Digital Strategy. The department intends to improve organisational functioning, particularly through a process of digital transformation and automating
some processes to improve effectiveness. The department recognises that ICT is the foundation of an effective department. Through a process of digital transformation, the department can utilise
it as an avenue to positively respond to the fiscal constraint and innovate and improvise, and yet still be effective in what it does.
It is further committed to place ICT as an enabler in the process to improve organisational functioning, working towards the automation and modern digitisation of business processes, to reduce
turnaround time and improve service delivery. This has become more urgent in the light of the new normal the world is operating in. There is an increasing demand for secure online platforms which
was necessitated by the dramatic increase for virtual engagement.
Due to the reducing budget for the compensation of employees, it has been difficult for the department to fill current vacant posts. This has led to a further process to review the structure of the
department to find ways to optimise the current staff establishment to maximise delivery on its ever-increasing mandate.
The department will, through its Diplomatic Academy, provide and facilitate quality and responsive training that aims to develop and shape extraordinary diplomats to advance South Africa’s
interests in a dynamic world. Considering the current trends in diplomacy particularly digitisation of diplomacy has a direct bearing on the training the Diplomatic Academy offers. The Academy will
increase its utilisation of partnerships to enrich training and in the light of the new normal also focus more on online training.
International law provides the rules regulating diplomatic interaction and relations between states and the operation of international organisations. In this regard, the department, through the Office
of the Chief State Law Adviser (IL), will continue to support the Government to achieve its foreign policy objectives by providing legal advice on international law. The office also provides legal
services and assistance relating to all aspects of a legislative, operational and departmental nature at Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions and by managing litigation
cases against and by the department in South Africa and abroad. It will also continue to act as official custodian and depositary of the Official South African Treaty Collection. It will also continue to
monitor South Africa’s compliance with its international obligations to submit national reports in terms of international agreements and customary international law and report to Cabinet twice a year.
Gender and disability mainstreaming is an essential part of good governance and critical to the department to ensure that policies and programmes respond to the needs and interests of all
employees. To ensure mainstreaming and the distribution of benefits equitably between the workforce, irrespective of gender and disability as well as with opportunities for youth development, the
department will continue with programmes within the department to mainstream gender, youth and people with disabilities.
The Foreign Service Bill has been signed into an Act. The department is currently in a process to draft the required regulations, codes and directives to enable the implementation of the Foreign
Service Act, 2019.
The department, during its planning of setting the objectives to be achieved over the midterm, committed to develop plans to improve the organisational function and enhance its financial
management in order to move to an unqualified audit outcome.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
41
PROGRAMME 1: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand  2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Ministry 6 004 6 883 6 223 7 106 6 599 6 598 6 609
Departmental
Management 15 626 16 864 15 415 19 711 18 303 18 302 18 332
Audit Services 19 690 23 928 25 943 17 754 21 660 21 881 22 126
Financial
Management 179 144 176 102 172 298 169 757 178 763 174 215 198 009
Corporate Services 610 136 676 267 622 048 768 965 783 506 746 566 739 650
Diplomatic
Training, Research
and Development
61 158 57 492 53 272 49 308 47 303 50 386 56 476
Foreign
Fixed Assets
Management
12 224 33 969 16 233 36 637 183 973 266 122 278 168
Office
Accommodation 325 372 363 985 383 478 400 813 447 451 471 910 498 220
Total 1 229 354 1 355 490 1 294 910 1 470 051 1 687 558 1 755 980 1 817 590
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme1: Administration for the 2021 MTEF. The allocated budget for Administration amounts to 26.2% of the total departmental budget for
the 2021/22 financial year. Over the MTEF, the budget allocation for this Programme will increase from R1.687 billion to R1.817 billion and the increase is mainly for capital infrastructure for the
construction, refurbishment and renovations of State-owned properties abroad as well as the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) budget for the implementation of the ICT strategy.

Economic
Classification
Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Compensation of
employees 438 666 469 437 496 550 481 167 451 953 452 172 484 863
Good and services 652 862 728 682 635 817 732 075 795 108 837 303 844 007
Interest on rent
and land 82 411 94 947 105 016 116 618 122 367 128 485 134 909
Transfers and
subsidies 1 574 2 002 2 057 1 739 1 763 1 827 1 834
Payments for
capital assets 53841 47 398 55 470 138 452 316 367 336 193 351 977
Payments for
financial assets 13 024 - - - - -
Total 1 229 354 1 355 490 1 294 490 1 470 051 1 687 558 1 755 980 1 817 590
Salary band Number of posts on
approved establishment on
31 January 2021
Number of posts filled on
31 January 2021
Number of posts additional
to the establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1 - 2) 3 1 21
Skilled (Levels 3 - 5 ) 134 114 1
Highly skilled production (Levels 6 - 8 ) 337 293 9
Highly skilled supervision (Level 9 - 12 ) 342 270 10
Senior Management (Levels 13 - 16) 70 60 8
POBs 3 3 0
Total 889 741 49

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
44
PROGRAMME 2: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Purpose: Promote relations with foreign countries
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora. Structured bilateral
mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities
towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer to numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries.
These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. It is an important platform for
the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various departments, depending on the area of cooperation being pursued.
Subprogrammes:
Africa
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Africa
Asia and the Middle East
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Asia and the Middle East
Americas and Caribbean
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in America and the Caribbean
Europe
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Europe

OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and
social relations to achieve the objectives of
the NDP and the MTSF priorities
Outcomes
of structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
are aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
Number of
regional
political
reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
New Indicator
Twelve
regional
political
reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
Twelve
regional
political
reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
Twelve
regional
political
reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
Twelve
regional
political
reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF
Increased foreign direct
investment (FDI) and contributed
to economic growth in South Africa
foreign direct investment (FDI) and
contributed to economic growth in
South Africa
Contributed to
increased FDI
into South
Africa and
Africa
Number of
quarterly
progress
reports on
regional
investment
strategies
New indicator
Twelve
regional
investment
strategies
and quarterly
progress
reports
Twelve
regional
investment
strategies
and quarterly
progress
reports
Twelve
regional
investment
strategies
and quarterly
progress
reports
Twelve
regional
investment
strategies
and quarterly
progress
reports
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
46
Contributed to
export promo-
tions
Number of
quarterly
progress
reports on
regional trade
strategies
aligned with
the Integrated
National Ex-
port Strategy
(INES)
New Indicator
Twelve
regional trade
strategies
aligned with
the INES
and quarter-
ly progress
reports
Twelve prog-
ress reports
on regional
trade strate-
gies aligned
with the INES
Twelve prog-
ress reports
on regional
trade strate-
gies aligned
with the INES
Twelve prog-
ress reports
on regional
trade strate-
gies aligned
with the INES
Contributed to
tourism arriv-
als to South
Africa
Number of
regional
reports on the
tourism-pro-
motion events
to promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist desti-
nation
New Indicator
Twelve re-
gional tourism
reports on the
tourism-pro-
motion events
to promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist des-
tination, the
opportunities
and barriers
Twelve re-
gional tourism
reports on the
tourism-pro-
motion events
to promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist desti-
nation
Twelve re-
gional tourism
reports on the
tourism-pro-
motion events
to promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist desti-
nation
Twelve re-
gional tourism
reports on the
tourism-pro-
motion events
to promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist desti-
nation
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
47
Outcome Outputs Outputs Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Increased regional integration
Contribution
towards regional
integration and
the implemen-
tation of the Re-
vised Regional
Indicative Strate-
gic Development
Plan (RISDP)
Number of Bi-annual
assessments of South
Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integra-
tion; and
• the implementation
of the RISDP
New indicator
Two assess-
ment reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-eco-
nomic
develop-
ment
• good gov-
ernance
• democracy
• regional
integration;
and
• the imple-
mentation
of the
RISDP
Two
assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-eco-
nomic
develop-
ment
• good gov-
ernance
• democracy
• regional
integration;
and
• the imple-
mentation
of the
RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-eco-
nomic de-
velopment
• good gov-
ernance
• democracy
• regional
integration;
and
• the imple-
mentation
of the
RISDP
Two
assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-eco-
nomic
develop-
ment
• good gov-
ernance
• democracy
• regional
integration;
and
• the imple-
mentation
of the
RISDP

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
48
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
12 regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Number of quarterly
progress reports on the
regional investment
strategies
Twelve progress reports
on the regional investment
strategies
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
investment strategies
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
investment strategies
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
investment strategies
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
investment strategies
Number of quarterly
progress reports on
regional trade strategies
aligned with the INES
Twelve progress reports on
regional trade strategies
aligned with the INES
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional trade
strategies aligned with the
INES
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional trade
strategies aligned with the
INES
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional trade
strategies aligned with the
INES
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional trade
strategies aligned with the
INES
Number of regional
tourism reports on the
tourism-promotion events
to promote South Africa
as a preferred tourist
destination
12 regional tourism reports
on the tourism-promotion
events to promote South
Africa as a preferred tourist
destination
Three regional tourism
reports on the tourism-
promotion events to
promote South Africa
as a preferred tourist
destination
Three regional tourism
reports on the tourism-
promotion events to
promote South Africa
as a preferred tourist
destination
Three regional tourism
reports on the tourism-
promotion events to
promote South Africa
as a preferred tourist
destination
Three regional tourism
reports on the tourism-
promotion events to
promote South Africa
as a preferred tourist
destination

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
49
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
regional integration
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of bi-annual
assessment of South
Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integration
• the implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment reports of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integration
• the implementation of
the RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integration
• the implementation of
the RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integration
• the implementation of
the RISDP

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
50
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The execution of our foreign policy is first and foremost predicated on the achievement and pursuit of our national priorities, however this is still within the framework of the greater good of the
region, the continent and the world. In this regard, the department will support the seven strategic priorities of the President and will forge closer working relations with all government departments
to become more focussed on the execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The department recognises that it is operating within a strained fiscal environment and cannot execute all objectives
simultaneously. It is therefore important to be focussed in terms of South Africa’s bilateral engagements and will therefore use specific country strategies to guide all bilateral engagements. It is
further recognised that although South Africa may identify what to get out of a bilateral relationship, the achievement thereof is not solely within its control.
“Economic diplomacy” is the new reality in the achievement of national interests through diplomatic means and complements traditional “political diplomacy”. In this new reality, DIRCO will
aggressively embark on economic diplomacy in order to contribute in a more direct and concrete manner to achieve poverty eradication, job creation and socio-economic development and growth,
primarily by utilising the resources it has in its missions abroad. In this process, DIRCO will become a catalyst and operate as a networking agent for “South Africa Incorporated”. The missions,
in particular, have a key frontline role to play in the pursuit of economic diplomacy and its component pillars such as FDI pledges as well as the contribution to tourism promotion for South Africa.
It is also recognised and acknowledged that DIRCO will source the opportunities and will hand it over to the relevant domestic stakeholders for further processing. In this regard, it is therefore
difficult for DIRCO to set the targets that are the result of the conclusion of a process that is not within its realm of responsibility. The target-setting therefore recognises that DIRCO will source the
opportunities and will, through its diplomacy, monitor and follow up to collectively deliver on the investment and trade promotion.
The department recognises that bilateral engagements remain the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora and will therefore
continue to strengthen its bilateral political, economic and social relations. This will be pursued through structured bilateral mechanisms as well as high-level visits.
DIRCO has a dynamic role to play in the improvement of the lives of South Africans by utilising its bilateral relations and global footprint in identifying strategic opportunities for skills and knowledge
development, targeted investments and growing markets for South Africa’s products and services, in an integrated and inclusive manner (domestic imperatives linked to international relations
work). The focus of these activities will contribute to the interventions and targets as outlined in the MTSF, in Priority Seven and the sectors identified in priorities one to six. With specific focus
on the increased and improved access of South African products and services to foreign markets, this will contribute to the aim of increasing manufacturing and thereby contribute to an export-
orientated economy
The department is committed to work for the betterment of the nation, the continent and the world and will continue in the execution of its foreign policy by looking at hard and soft issues. There
is a further acknowledgement and awareness that the world is changing rapidly and we are required to be on the mark and absolutely attuned with the ability to analyse, have effective responses
and be relevant. This is especially true after the COVID-10 pandemic and other wild cards, and there is a recognition that South Africa’s foreign policy should be agile to respond to remain relevant
in the rapidly changing world. The department should prepare for emerging and complex challenges (Brexit, the next phase of BRICS, tension on the Asian subcontinent, climate change and its
impact on the continent, migration, increased poverty, landlessness, water scarcity and unplanned international migration) and its possible impact on the delivery of our foreign policy objectives.
This will be done with a continued commitment to regional integration and the implementation of the RISDP, with a clear focus on contributing to peace, stability, socio-economic development,
good governance and democracy.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, traditional diplomacy, in the form of face-to-face meetings, had to be replaced by digital diplomacy, not only in South Africa, but worldwide. Using virtual diplomacy
means that countries were, and still are, able to conduct their business in order to achieve pre-determined goals.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
51
PROGRAMME 2: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand  2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Africa 1 062 107 1 36 802 997 011 952 340 970 599 1 038 690 1 090 045
Asia and Middle
East 942 951 941 034 948 354 888 219 890 564 927 864 985 811
Americas 494 578 509 243 508 528 479 791 499 207 486 084 443 234
Europe 970 570 890 397 860 041 826 851 847 038 794 754 727 508
Total 3 470 206 3 377 476 3 313 934 3 147 201 3 207 408 3 247 392 3 246 598
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 2: International Relations for the 2021 MTEF. The allocated budget for International Relations amounts to 49.7% of the total
departmental budget for the 2021/22 financial year. The budget allocation increases over the MTEF from R3.207 billion and includes allocations for 120 missions in the Africa, Americas, Europe,
Asia and Middle East regions. The increase in the budget allocation for this programme is mainly on goods and services as per the escalations on contractual obligations for the leases of offices
and residential accommodation abroad.

Economic
Classification
Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Compensation of
employees 2 106 968 2 073 395 2 077 476 1 897 471 1 851 579 1 868 884 1 872 827
Good and services 1 333 616 1 273 937 1 227 795 1 232 338 1 305 576 1 351 938 1 351 257
Interest on rent
and land - - - - - - -
Transfers and
subsidies 23 788 25 165 6 302 6 098 42 502 18 415 14 001
Payments for
capital assets 5 834 4 979 2 346 11 294 7 751 8 155 8 513
Payments for
financial assets - - 13 - - - -
Total 3 470 206 3 377 476 3 313 934 3 147 201 3 207 408 3 247 392 3 246 598
Salary band Number of posts on
approved establishment on
31 January 2021
Number of posts filled on
31 January 2021
Number of posts additional
to the establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1 - 2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3 - 5 ) 13 9 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6 - 8 ) 219 197 0
Highly skilled supervision (Level 9 - 12 ) 520 457 0
Senior Management (Levels 13 - 16) 172 140 1
Total 924 803 1

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
54
PROGRAMME 3:  GLO BAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE; CONTINENTAL COOPERATION; SOUTH-SOUTH
   COOPERA TION;  AND NORTH-SOUTH DIALOGUE

Purpose: Participate in initiatives of international organisations and institutions in line with South Africa’ s national values and foreign policy objectives
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora. Structured bilateral
mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities
towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer to numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries.
These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. It is an important platform for
the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various departments, depending on the area of cooperation being pursued.
Subprogramme 3.1: Global  System of Governance
Purpose:   Participate in the global system of gove rnance
Subprogramme 3.2: Contin ental Cooperation
Purpose:   Strengthen socio-economic and politica l development of the African continent
Subprogramme 3.3: South- South Cooperation
Purpose:   Strengthen South-South relations
Sub programme 3.4: North-South Dialogue
Purpose:   Strengthen relations with the strategic f ormations of the North

OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Proponent of strengthening multilateral institutions through consistently upholding South
Africa’s principled positions
Membership
at identified
multilateral
bodies utilised
to pursue
South Africa’s
national
interest and
advance the
development
agenda
A long-term
strategy for
South Africa’s
membership
implemented
New Indicator
Develop a
long-term
strategy for
South Africa’s
membership
and identify
which mem-
berships to
pursue
Bi-annual
progress
report on the
Implementa-
tion of the ap-
proved strat-
egy Bi-annual
progress re-
port on the
Implemen-
tation of the
approved
strategy
Assessment
of effective-
ness of the
strategy Im-
plementation
of possible
amendments /
improvements
to the strategy
Implemen-
tation of
possible
amendments /
improvements
to the strategy
South Africa’s
interests and
the African
Agenda
promoted and
reflected in
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
dealing with
peace and
security,
human rights,
economic and
social devel-
opment
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
peace and
security,
-human rights
and economic
and social
development
New Indicator
Twelve
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
peace and
security,
human rights
and economic
and social
development
Twelve
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
Peace and
security,
human rights
and economic
and social
development
Twelve
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
Peace and
security,
human rights
and economic
and social
development
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
3.1 GLOBAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
56
Compliance
with South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Number of
reports on
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
New Indicator
Two reports
on the imple-
mentation of
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the imple-
mentation of
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the imple-
mentation of
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the imple-
mentation of
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
South Africa’s
leadership
and policy
advanced on
the regional,
continental
and global
stage
Number of
positions on
identified
influential
multilateral
bodies where
South Africa is
represented
The current
level of repre-
sentation by
South Africa at
the UN stands
at 67 posi-
tions, including
high-level
positions
The current
level of
representa-
tion by South
Africa at the
UN stands at
63 positions,
including the
new high-lev-
el positions
At the end of
March 2020,
the number
of positions
occupied by
South Africa
(at country,
expert and
appointment
level) stood
at 65
Not reported
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies main-
tained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies main-
tained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies main-
tained
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

United and politically cohesive continent that works towards shared prosperity and sustainable
development
South Africa
contributes to
the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agenda 2063
flagship proj-
ects
Number of
monitoring
reports on
South Africa’s
contribution
to the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agenda 2063
flagship proj-
ects
One monitor-
ing report on
South Africa’s
contribution
to the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agenda 2063
flagship proj-
ects
Bi-annual
monitoring
reports on
South Africa’s
contribution
to the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agenda 2063
flagship proj-
ects
Bi-annual
monitoring
reports on
South Africa’s
contribution
to the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agenda 2063
flagship proj-
ects
Bi-annual
monitoring
reports
on South
Africa’s con-
tribution  to
the opera-
tionalisation
of identified
Agen-
da 2063
flagship
projects
Africa partner-
ships reca-
librated for
the effective
implemen-
tation of the
AU’s Agenda
2063.
Number of
assessment
reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa part-
nerships are
aligned to the
AU Agenda
2063
New indicator
Two assess-
ment reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa part-
nerships are
aligned to the
AU Agenda
2063
Two assess-
ment reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa part-
nerships are
aligned to the
AU Agenda
2063
Two assess-
ment reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa part-
nerships are
aligned to the
AU Agenda
2063
Two as-
sessment
reports
reflecting
how the
outcomes of
Africa part-
nerships
are aligned
to the AU
Agenda
2063
South Africa’s
obligations to-
wards  SADC
and the AU
honoured
Number of
reports on
South Africa’s
obligations to
SADC and AU
fulfilled
New indicator
Two reports
on South
Africa’s
obligations to
SADC and AU
fulfilled
Two reports
on South
Africa’s
obligations to
SADC and AU
fulfilled
Two reports
on South
Africa’s ob-
ligations to
SADC and
AU fulfilled
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
3.2 CONTINENTAL COOPERATION

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
58
South Africa
contribute to
continental
efforts aimed
at resolving
conflicts
Percentage of
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
in order
to resolve
continental
conflicts
New indicator
100% of
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
in order to
resolve
continental
conflicts,
honoured
100% of
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
in order
to resolve
continental
conflicts,
honoured
100% of
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
in order
to resolve
continental
conflicts,
honoured
100% of South
Africa’s  com-
mitments and
efforts in order
to resolve
continental
conflicts, hon-
oured
3.3 SOUTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
South-South relations strengthened
and consolidated in advancement of
national and continental priorities
South-South
cooperation
utilised to pur-
sue South Af-
rica’s national
interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number  of
reports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator
Four re-
ports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four re-
ports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four re-
ports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
59
Relations with the North leveraged
in advancement of national and
continental priorities
North-South
cooperation
utilised to pur-
sue South Af-
rica’s national
interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator
Two re-
ports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Three re-
ports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engage-
ments
reflecting
South Afri-
ca’s partic-
ipation and
interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four re-
ports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Outcome Outputs
Outputs
Indicators
Annual Targets
Audited/Actual Performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
3.4 NORTH-SOUTH DIALOGUE

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
60
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.1 GLOBAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE
A long-term strategy for
South Africa’s membership
implemented
Bi-annual progress report
on the Implementation of
the approved strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of the
approved strategy
Progress report on the
implementation of the
approved strategy
Number of reports
on the outcomes of
multilateral and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Twelve reports on
the outcomes of
multilateral and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate
organisations reflecting
South Africa's participation
and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Number of reports on
South Africa’s international
reporting obligations
Two reports on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
One report on South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
One report on South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
Number of positions
on identified influential
multilateral bodies where
South Africa is represented
Sixty positions on identified
influential multilateral
bodies maintained
Maintain 60 Maintain 60

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
61
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.2 CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Number of monitoring reports on
South Africa’s contribution to the
operationalisation of identified Agenda
2063 flagship projects
Bi-annual monitoring reports on
South Africa’s contribution  to the
operationalisation of identified Agenda
2063 flagship projects
One monitoring report
on South Africa’s
contribution to the
operationalisation of
identified Agenda 2063
flagship projects
One monitoring report
on South Africa’s
contribution to the
operationalisation of
identified Agenda 2063
flagship projects
Number of assessment reports
reflecting how the outcomes of Africa
partnerships are aligned to the AU
Agenda 2063
Two assessment reports reflecting how
the outcomes of Africa partnerships are
aligned to the AU Agenda 2063
One assessment
reports reflecting how
the outcomes of Africa
partnerships are aligned
to the AU Agenda 2063
One assessment
reports reflecting how
the outcomes of Africa
partnerships are aligned
to the AU Agenda 2063
Number of reports on South Africa’s
obligations to SADC and AU fulfilled
Two reports on South Africa’s
obligations to SADC and AU fulfilled
Report on South Africa’s
obligations to SADC
and AU fulfilled
Report on South Africa’s
obligations to SADC and AU
fulfilled
Percentage of South Africa’s
commitments and efforts in order to
resolve continental conflicts honoured
100% of South Africa’s commitments
and efforts in order to resolve
continental conflicts honoured
100% of South Africa’s
commitments and efforts
in order to resolve
continental conflicts
honoured
100% of South Africa’s
commitments and efforts
in order to resolve
continental conflicts
honoured
100% of South Africa’s
commitments and efforts in
order to resolve continental
conflicts honoured
100% of South Africa’s
commitments and efforts
in order to resolve
continental conflicts
honoured
3.3 SOUTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
Number of reports on the outcomes of
South-South engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the African
Agenda
Four reports on the outcomes of South-
South engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and interests,
including that of the African Agenda
Report on the
outcomes of South-
South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Report on the
outcomes of South-
South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Report on the outcomes of
South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
Report on the
outcomes of South-
South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including that
of the African Agenda
3.4 NORTH-SOUTH DIALOGUE
Number of reports on the outcomes of
North-South engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the African
Agenda
Two reports on the outcomes of North-
South engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and interests,
including that of the African Agenda
Report on the
outcomes of North-
South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Report on the
outcomes of North-
South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including that
of the African Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
62
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The execution of our foreign policy is first and foremost predicated on the achievement and pursuit of our national priorities, however this is still within the framework of the greater good of the
region, the continent and the world. In this regard, the department will support the seven strategic priorities of the President and will forge closer working relations with all government departments
to become more focussed on the execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The department recognises that it is operating within a strained fiscal environment and cannot execute all objectives
simultaneously. It is therefore important to be focussed in terms of South Africa’s bilateral engagements and will therefore use specific country strategies to guide all bilateral engagements. It is
further recognised that although South Africa may identify what to get out of a bilateral relationship, the achievement thereof is not solely within its control.
“Economic diplomacy” is the new reality in the achievement of national interests through diplomatic means and complements traditional “political diplomacy”. In this new reality, DIRCO will
aggressively embark on economic diplomacy in order to contribute in a more direct and concrete manner to achieve poverty eradication, job creation and socio-economic development and growth,
primarily by utilising the resources it has in its missions abroad. In this process, DIRCO will become a catalyst and operate as a networking agent for “South Africa Incorporated”. The missions,
in particular, have a key frontline role to play in the pursuit of economic diplomacy and its component pillars such as FDI pledges as well as the contribution to tourism promotion for South Africa.
It is also recognised and acknowledged that DIRCO will source the opportunities and will hand it over to the relevant domestic stakeholders for further processing. In this regard, it is therefore
difficult for DIRCO to set the targets that are the result of the conclusion of a process that is not within its realm of responsibility. The target-setting therefore recognises that DIRCO will source the
opportunities and will, through its diplomacy, monitor and follow up to collectively deliver on the investment and trade promotion.
The department recognises that bilateral engagements remain the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora and will therefore
continue to strengthen its bilateral political, economic and social relations. This will be pursued through structured bilateral mechanisms as well as high-level visits.
DIRCO has a dynamic role to play in the improvement of the lives of South Africans by utilising its bilateral relations and global footprint in identifying strategic opportunities for skills and knowledge
development, targeted investments and growing markets for South Africa’s products and services, in an integrated and inclusive manner (domestic imperatives linked to international relations
work). The focus of these activities will contribute to the interventions and targets as outlined in the MTSF, in Priority Seven and the sectors identified in priorities one to six. With specific focus
on the increased and improved access of South African products and services to foreign markets, this will contribute to the aim of increasing manufacturing and thereby contribute to an export-
orientated economy
The department is committed to work for the betterment of the nation, the continent and the world and will continue in the execution of its foreign policy by looking at hard and soft issues. There
is a further acknowledgement and awareness that the world is changing rapidly and we are required to be on the mark and absolutely attuned with the ability to analyse, have effective responses
and be relevant. This is especially true after the COVID-10 pandemic and other wild cards, and there is a recognition that South Africa’s foreign policy should be agile to respond to remain relevant
in the rapidly changing world. The department should prepare for emerging and complex challenges (Brexit, the next phase of BRICS, tension on the Asian subcontinent, climate change and its
impact on the continent, migration, increased poverty, landlessness, water scarcity and unplanned international migration) and its possible impact on the delivery of our foreign policy objectives.
This will be done with a continued commitment to regional integration and the implementation of the RISDP, with a clear focus on contributing to peace, stability, socio-economic development,
good governance and democracy.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, traditional diplomacy, in the form of face-to-face meetings, had to be replaced by digital diplomacy, not only in South Africa, but worldwide. Using virtual diplomacy
means that countries were, and still are, able to conduct their business in order to achieve pre-determined goals.

PROGRAMME 3: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 3: System of Global Governance; Continental Cooperation; South-South Cooperation; and North-South Cooperation for the 2021
MTEF, consisting of five missions’ allocations abroad. The allocated budget amounts to 7.9% of the total departmental budget for the 2021/22 financial year.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Global System of Governance       283 110       362 224  381 237  353 226  366 823  365 299  356 285
Continental Cooperation          74 593          70 235  80 983  62 771  69 447  70 878  68 178
South-South Cooperation                     820            4 638  5 063  4 417  5 015  5 033  5 035
North-South Dialogue          86 785          88 647  73 821  69 238  72 379  71 923  72 128
Total       445 308       525 744  541 104  489 652  513 664  513 133  501 626
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Economic classification
Compensation of employees       302 123       363 160  378 361  330 731  352 456  349 891  337 209
Goods and services       142 765       153 892  160 376  156 470  159 514  161 480  162 635
Interest on rent and land                        -                          -    -    -    -    -    -
Transfers and subsidies                     163            8 407  1 962  1 350  1 368  1 418  1 423
Payments for capital assets                     257                     285  405  1 101  326  344  359
Payments for financial assets    -    -    -    -    -
Total       445 308       525 744  541 104  489 652  513 664  513 133  501 626

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
64
Salary band
Number of posts
on approved
establishment on 31
January 2021
Number of posts
 filled on 31 January
2021
Number of posts
additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 6 5 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 57 46 1
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 148 129 5
Senior management  (Levels 13-16) 34 31 2
Total 245 211 8

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
66
PROGRAMME 4:  PUBLIC DIPLOMACY  AND PROTOCOL SERVICES
Purpose: Communicate South Africa’s role and position in international relations in the domestic and international arenas and provide  Protocol Services

Subprogrammes:
4.1  Public D iplomacy
Purpose: Communicate South Africa's role and position in international relations in the domestic and international arenas and provide State Protocol Services.
4.2 Protocol Services
Purpose: Provide protocol and ceremonial services

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
67
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
4.1 PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
Domestic and foreign audiences informed on South Africa's
foreign policy objectives and priorities
Rapid and
timeous support
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Number of
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
New indicator Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Platforms utilised
to inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic
and international
audiences.
Number of
platforms utilised
to inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic
and international
audiences:
Twelve public
participation
programmes
(PPPs)
Thirteen PPPs Fifteen PPPs Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs
Hundred
and forty
nine media
statements
published
Hundred
and fifty
three media
statements
published
Hundred
and twenty
two media
statements
published
Ninety media
statements
issued
Ninety media
statements issued
Ninety media
statements issued
Ninety media
statements
issued
Fourteen
opinion pieces
published
Fifteen
opinion pieces
published
 Fourteen
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces published
Nine opinion
pieces published
Nine opinion
pieces published
Nine opinion
pieces
published

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
68
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
OUTPUT INDICATORS ANNUAL TARGET Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of key messages distributed
to missions on domestic and global
developments
Nine key messages distributed to
missions on domestic and global
developments
Three sets of key
messages distributed
to missions on
domestic and global
developments
Three sets of key
messages distributed
to missions on
domestic and global
developments
Two sets of key
messages distributed
to missions on
domestic and global
developments
One set of key
messages distributed
to missions on
domestic and global
developments
Number of platforms utilised to inform
and promote South Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic and international
audiences:
Twelve PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs
Ninety media statements published Twenty media
statements published
Twenty five media
statements published
Twenty five media
statements published
Twenty media
statements published
Nine opinion pieces published One opinion piece
published
Three opinion pieces
published
Three opinion pieces
published
Two opinion pieces
published

Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
4.2 PROTOCOL SERVICESImproved compliance with the diplomatic
regulatory framework
Professional
protocol services
rendered to all
incoming and
outgoing  visits
Percentage of
requests for pro-
tocol services
rendered to all
incoming and out-
going  visits
100% (70)
of state visit
services ren-
dered
100% (76) of
state visit ser-
vices rendered
100% (53) of
state visit ser-
vices rendered
100% of pro-
tocol services
rendered to all
incoming and
outgoing state,
official and work-
ing visits
100% of pro-
tocol services
rendered to all
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol
services rendered
to all  incoming
outgoing  visits
100% of pro-
tocol services
rendered to
all incoming
and outgoing
visits
Consular servic-
es rendered
Percentage of
requests for con-
sular assistance
rendered
100% (664)
of consular
services ren-
dered
100% (995)
of consular
services ren-
dered
100% (929) of
consular ser-
vices rendered
100% of con-
sular services
rendered
100% of consular
services ren-
dered
100% of consular
services rendered
100% of con-
sular services
rendered
Legalised servic-
es rendered
Percentage of
documents legal-
ised
100% (60
443) of docu-
ments legal-
ised
100% (71
930) of docu-
ments legal-
ised
100% (82 644)
of documents
legalised
100% of docu-
ments legalised
100% of docu-
ments legalised
100% of docu-
ments legalised
100% of doc-
uments legal-
ised
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Percentage of requests for protocol
services rendered to all incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol services rendered to
all incoming and outgoing visits
100% of protocol
services rendered
during visits
100% of protocol
services rendered
during visits
100% of protocol
services rendered
during visits
100% of protocol
services rendered
during visits
Percentage of requests for consular
assistance rendered
100% of consular services rendered 100% of consular
services rendered
100% of consular
services rendered
100% of consular
services rendered
100% of consular
services rendered
Percentage of documents legalised 100% of documents legalised 100% of documents
legalised
100% of documents
legalised
100% of documents
legalised
100% of documents
legalised

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
70
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
Public Diplomacy (PD) will focus its budget allocation on expanding the reach of its platforms, with a specific focus on taking “foreign policy to the people”. The ranges of platforms include, but are
not limited to, the Ubuntu Magazine, Ubuntu News Flash, Ubuntu Radio, Ubuntu TV, etc. These platforms inform, highlight and celebrate the achievements of government and non-state actors in
projecting South Africa positively abroad and the role played by South Africa on the international stage. Other key platforms are the PPPs and annual events, including the Diplomatic Fun Fair, Africa
Day celebrations, etc. These also include public lectures, symposia, outreach programmes and engagements with government departments and other stakeholders. The branch will strengthen
working relationships with like-minded institutions such as Brand SA, South African Tourism, etc. to continue to chart a uniquely South African image that aims to bring much-needed investment and
tourism opportunities to our shores.
COVID-19 restrictions have heightened the need for digital diplomacy, undertaken through popular social networking sites such as Twitter, Facebook, Linkedln, YouTube, and news websites,
webinars, virtual briefings and video-conferencing.
The current digital revolution and technological advances remain a key interest, and the branch’s key challenge, as the PD Strategy aims to invest in new technologies to broaden its current reach.
As it has been effective and beneficial in the execution of its mandate, the branch aims to increase its reach on social media by expanding and strengthening its use of key social media platforms.
These include platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube to also complement Ubuntu Radio, which remains a key medium of communication in the execution of the PD Strategy
and stimulation of dialogue on issues that affect South Africa, the continent and partners across the globe.
Consular Services provide effective and efficient consular and notarial services to South African nationals travelling, working, studying and/or living abroad. Emergency consular services can be
described as services rendered to South African nationals who are distressed, destitute or seriously injured, and assistance rendered to the next of kin in case of death or being involved in natural
or man-made disasters.
The Centre for Early Warning offers a 24-hour communications, information, logistical and stand-by support service relating to issues relevant to DIRCO and other government departments, South
African missions abroad and the public at large, often serving as a call centre to disseminate information during a crisis. Consular notarial services are another form of consular assistance rendered
to South African citizens and foreign nationals requiring South African public documents to be legalised for use abroad. These services are rendered to provide legal validity to South African public
documents to enable a person to use the documents outside South Africa.
 As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, support in respect of repatriation requests remain paramount.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
71
PROGRAMME 4: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services for the 2021 MTEF, consisting of two subprogrammes, namely: Public Diplomacy and
Protocol Services. The allocated budget amounts to 4.6% of the total departmental budget for the 2021/22 financial year. The budget allocation for the 2021/22 financial year has decreased,
resulting from the hybrid method of conducting diplomacy (virtual and face-to-face) adopted by the department.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Public Diplomacy               72 576               78 042  69 401  54 721  59 677  54 078  52 128
Protocol Services             197 867             274 473  219 645  249 349  234 965  234 068  223 956
Total 270 443  352 515  289 046  304 070  294 642  288 146  276 084
Economic classification Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23 2023/24
Compensation of employees             171 053             182 967  185 119  172 193  163 557  156 326  144 955
Goods and services               98 172             167 084  103 000  129 997  129 330  130 001  129 301
Interest on rent and land                        -
  -    -    -    -    -
Transfers and subsidies                  1 174                     870  927  1 698  1 721  1 783  1 790
Payments for capital assets                       44                  1 594  -    182  34  36  38
Payments for financial assets    -    -    -    -    -
Total 270 443  352 515  289 046  304 070  294 642  288 146  276 084

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
72
Salary band
Number of posts on
approved establishment
on 31 January 2021
Number of posts
 filled on 31
January 2021
Number of posts
additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 22 15 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 169 141 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 135 97 0
Senior management  (Levels 13-16) 24 20 0
Total 350 273 0

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
74
PROGRAMME 5:  INTERNA TIONAL TRANSFERS
Purpose: Fund membership fees and transfer to international organisations
Subprogrammes:
5.1 Departmental agencies
Purpose: Facilitate transfer of funds to the public entity
5.2 Membership contributio ns
Purpose: Facilitate transfers to international organisations

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
75
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Strengthen multi-
lateralism through
membership fees
and contributions
South Africa fulfill-
ing its continental
and global re-
sponsibilities
Number of quar-
terly reports on
payment of South
Africa’s contribu-
tions to interna-
tional organisa-
tions
581,5 657,4 871,050
Payments of
South African
contributions to
international or-
ganisations in full
and on time
Four quarterly re-
ports on payment
of South Africa’s
contributions to
international or-
ganisations
Four quarterly re-
ports on payment
of South Africa’s
contributions to
international or-
ganisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
OUTPUT INDICATORS ANNUAL TARGET Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of quarterly reports on payment
of South Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
Four quarterly reports on payment
of South Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions
to international
organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions
to international
organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions
to international
organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions
to international
organisations

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
76
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The department will continue to transfer payments, which arise from obligations undertaken by South Africa at international, regional and subregional multilateral levels. The payments, which are
made by the department, generally take the form of:
•	 membership dues to organisations such as the UN, AU, SADC and the Commonwealth
•	 contributions to peacekeeping operations of the UN
•	 meetings of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa is a member , and in which South Africa has participated
•	 voluntary pledges that South Africa has made to international organisations for the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical assistance, etc.
The MTSF (2019 – 2024) requires that South Africa contributes to a better South Africa and better region and to secure the advancement of South Africa’s national interest. This can only be realised
through the payment of South African contributions to international organisations in full and on time. Therefore, under its Outcome, “Agenda 2030 and Agenda 2063”, it is required that South Africa
honours its obligations towards the UN, SADC and the AU, including the institutions hosted in South Africa (.i.e. Pan-African Parliament, New Partnership for Africa’s Development, African Peer
Review Mechanism, African Commission on Nuclear Energy and Pan-African University on Space Science (PAUSSI) and transfrontier conservation areas. This requires the settlement of all assessed
contributions as required by the respective international organisations.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
77
PROGRAMME 5: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 5: International Transfers for the 2021 MTEF, which consists of the Departmental Agencies’ allocation to the African Renaissance and
international Cooperation Fund as well as international membership contributions to organisations such as, among others, the AU, SADC, UN, India-Brazil-South Africa Trust Fund, Commonwealth
of Nations, etc. The allocated budget amounts to 11.6% of the total departmental budget for the 2021/22 financial year. The budget allocation for this programme is determined based on the
assessment letters from each organisation South Africa is a member of.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Departmental Agencies                22 243            38 692  46 272  58 459  59 798  61 370  62 075
Membership Contribution              559 302          720 322  824 778  845 535  689 302  701 985  707 064
Total              581 545          759 014  871 050  903 994  749 100  763 355  769 139
Economic classification Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2017/18 2018/19  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23 2023/24
Transfers and subsidies              581 545          759 014  871 050  903 994  749 100  763 355  769 139
Total              581 545          759 014  871 050  903 994  749 100  763 355  769 139

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
78
6. UPDATED RISKS
OUTCOME KEY RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES
A modern, effective department with capable and skilled
employees that is committed to the excellent execution of
South Africa’s foreign policy

Impact of foreign exchange fluctuations
Outdated ICT system
Adaptation to digital change
Ineffective and inefficient systems
Inadequate Head Office-Mission interface
Continued impact of the pandemic and disruption
Structured change management processes
Up-skilling and reskilling of personnel
Improve systems
Improve support to missions
Increase in virtual engagements
Secure online platforms
Blended learning methodologies
Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and social relations to
achieve the objectives of the NDP and the MTSF priorities
Unexpected and unforeseen international changes
Inadequate interface between some key stakeholders
both at missions and Head Office
Continued impact of the pandemic and disruption in
traditional diplomacy
Lack of synergy between partner departments
To be agile and responsive to international changes, engage
in scenario planning and forecasting and to also consider
reprioritisation in response to international changes
Enabling work environment to allow for flexibility and digital
diplomacy
Whole-of-government approach to develop country strategies for
engagements
Increased FDI and contributed to economic growth in South
Africa
Unexpected and unforeseen international changes,
such as COVID, negatively impacting the economic
growth
Sectors working in isolation
Lack of synergy between partner departments
Perception by foreign investors that their investments
in South Africa would not be secured/protected as
a result of a poor understanding of South Africa’s
national policies, leading to a reluctance by them to
invest in the country
To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to
international changes
Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
79
OUTCOME KEY RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES
Increased regional integration
Influence from outside the region on the
implementation of the SADC programme as
encapsulated in the SADC Blue Prints
Lack of financial resources within the SADC
Secretariat in the implementation of Summit
and Council decisions as well as SADC’s work
programme
Lack of political will and resources within the
member states to implement programmes and
projects
Potential for destabilising elements in the region.
Engage SADC member states bilaterally on the implementation
of SADC decisions
To engage international cooperating partners to secure funding
without preconditions for the implementation of identified SADC
programmes/projects
Engage SADC member states bilaterally on their respective
responsibilities to work towards the implementation of SADC
decisions
Place South Africa as a credible interlocutor on the international
stage
Proponent of strengthening multilateral institutions through
consistently upholding South Africa’s principled positions
Undermining of collective initiatives aimed at
strengthening multilateralism
Unexpected and unforeseen international changes,
such as COVID-19, impacting on the ability on
physical meetings and face-to-face negotiations
Strengthened multilateral alliances to mitigate the negative effects
of unilateral actions
To be agile and responsive to international changes and creating
an enabling work environment to ensure participation in virtual
engagements
United and politically cohesive continent that works towards
shared prosperity and sustainable development
Negative external actor involvement
Potential for destabilising developments on the
continent
Increased AU coordination and regional economic community
cohesion
South-South relations strengthened and consolidated
in advancement of national and continental priorities
Divisions within the South Coordinated approach to issues of common concern
Relations with the North leveraged in advancement of
national and continental priorities
Unexpected and unforeseen international
changes
Lack of synergy between partner departments
To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to
international changes
Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms
Whole of government approach to develop strategies for
engagements
Improve policy coordination

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
80
OUTCOME KEY RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES
Domestic and foreign audiences informed on South
Africa's foreign policy objectives and priorities
Outdated technology
Divergent views emanating from South Africa
on foreign policy
Digital transformation, modernisation of ICT
Stronger interdepartmental coordination on international
relations activities
Improved compliance with the regulatory framework Dependencies on key stakeholders
Lack of cooperation with key stakeholders
Improved communication
Strengthen partnerships with signed memoranda of
understanding
Enforcement in terms of the diplomatic legal framework
7. PUBLIC ENTITIES
NAME OF PUBLIC ENTITY MANDATE OUTCOMES CURRENT ANNUAL BUDGET
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF)
To enhance cooperation between
the Republic and other countries, in
particular African countries, through
the promotion of democracy, good
governance, the prevention and
resolution of conflict, social-economic
development and integration,
humanitarian assistance and human
resource development
Disbursement of development aid to enhance
cooperation between the Republic and other
countries to:
•	 promote democracy and good governance
•	 contribute to prevention and resolution of
conflict
•	 support socio-economic development and
integration
•	 provide humanitarian assistance
R48,546 million

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
81
8. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
No. Project name Project description Outputs Project start date Project
comletion date
Total estimated
project cost
Current year
expenditure
2020/21
1 Namibia Chancery: Repairs
and replacement of systems Replacement of lift Lift replaced 2020/21 2021/22
R1 000 000 0
2
Copenhagen Chancery and
Official Residence: Repairs
and replacement of systems
Attending to rising damp, heating
and cooling systems and security
systems
Systems repaired and
replaced
Property renovated
2020/21 2022/23
R3 900 000 0
3
Munich Official Residence:
Repairs and replacement of
systems
Repair and replacement of
electrical and mechanical
systems and piping
Systems repaired and
replaced
Property renovated
2020/21 2022/23
R2 500 000 R190 810
4
Vienna Chancery and Official
Residence: Repairs and
replacement of systems
Replacement of sewage and
electrical systems, damp proofing
and general upgrades
Systems repaired and
replaced
Property renovated
2020/21 2022/23
R9 300 000 0
5 London Chancery: Repairs
and replacement of systems Replacement of fire alarm system
System replaced
2021/22 2021/22 R2 233 000 0

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
82
9. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP (PPP)
PPP Purpose Outputs Current Value of Agreement End Date of Agreement
Head Office accommodation
for the Department of
International Relations and
Cooperation
Financing, design, construction,
operation and maintenance of a Head
Office and guesthouse facilities
Financing, design, renovation and
structural maintenance of state-
owned guesthouse facility
New Head Office and guesthouse
constructed
Head Office and guesthouse maintained
and operated by on-site facilities
management company
Furniture, fittings and equipment installed,
maintained and replaced at agreed
intervals
State-owned guesthouse renovated and
structurally maintained
2020/21 unitary fee:
R249,932,987 million
per annum (including VAT)
September 2034

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
84
PART D:   TECHNICAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION (TID)

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
86
INDICATOR TITLE Enhanced digital environment
DEFINITION In order to enhance the digital environment, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation needs to have a detailed road map
and a detailed implementation plan of the approved strategy. In order to ensure the appropriateness, the strategy needs to be monitored
and assessed to determine the relevance of the strategic direction.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: ICT
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Assess whether the approved Digital Strategy is implemented through identified projects progress reports
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Implementation of the Digital Strategy
ASSUMPTIONS Buy-in from key stakeholders
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Accelerated implementation of the digital strategy
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief Information Officer (CIO)

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
87
INDICATOR TITLE Number of progress reports on the Audit Action Plan towards an unqualified audit opinion
DEFINITION It is important that the department implements the Audit Action Plan in order to improve the audit outcome from qualified to unqualified.
The department will monitor the action plan on a quarterly basis to make sure that there is progress
SOURCE OF DATA Office of the Chief Financial Officer
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Progress on the Audit Action Plan
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Progress report on the Audit Action Plan
ASSUMPTIONS Audit Action Plan implemented and monitored, leading to improvement in audit outcome
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Unqualified audit opinion
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief Financial Officer

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
88
INDICATOR TITLE Three identified aspects of a centre of excellence in foreign service training implemented
DEFINITION The academy is expected to deliver quality programmes that adhere to international standards and the standard for the management
thereof will be linked to have a certified Quality Management. It is furthermore imperative that for this diplomatic corps to function optimally,
foreign language proficiency is vital and the academy will strive to enhance its capability to offer such. The importance of establishing
partnerships and networks with strategic institutions both at the national and international level will be prioritised in pursuit of the objective
of striving to be a centre of excellence.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Foreign Service Training and International School
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Simple count
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Valid ISO certificate, Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Not applicable
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desirable. Maintaining ISO certified QMS
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Chief Directorate: Foreign Service Training and International School

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
89
INDICATOR TITLE Number of initiatives to mainstream gender, youth and people with disabilities
DEFINITION Initiatives undertaken towards creating an enabling environment for the promotion of gender empowerment, youth development and for
people with disabilities. The department will track initiatives on promoting gender empowerment, youth development and for people with
disabilities.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Simple count (quantitative)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports, attendance registers
ASSUMPTIONS Active participation in initiatives; officials declare their disabilities
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Target for women: six
Target for youth: two
Target for people with disabilities: two
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desirable, awareness of gender empowerment, youth development and for people with disabilities.
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
90
INDICATOR TITLE Percentage of legal advice and services rendered
DEFINITION OCSLA (IL) provides legal advice, legal services and policy advice to all aspects of domestic and international law.
SOURCE OF DATA Statistics from Legal Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Quarterly reports and registers
ASSUMPTIONS There are written requests for legal advice
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE On target - 100% of legal advice and services rendered
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY OCSLA (IL)

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
91
INDICATOR TITLE Number of regional political reports, including the outcomes of structured bilateral mechanism and high-level visits aligned
to achievement of the NDP and MTSF
DEFINITION South Africa strengthens and consolidates its political, economic and social relations through different engagements.
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective
engagement in multilateral fora.
Structured bilateral mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign
policy instruments to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms
refer to numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries and is governed by a signed
agreement. These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/
or other high-level decisions.
High-Level meetings, for the purposes of our report, denote meetings at the level of President, Deputy President, DIRCO Minister, Deputy
Ministers, Director-General and Deputy Director-General.
It is an important platform for the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various
departments depending on the area of cooperation being pursued. It is of great importance to track the outcomes of these scheduled
meetings as they promote South Africa’s national priorities and interests.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed/approved reports
ASSUMPTIONS South Africa’s objectives can be pursued with the identified bilateral partner
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desired – alignment between country strategies against domestic priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral Branches

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
92
INDICATOR TITLE Number of quarterly progress reports on the regional investment strategies
DEFINITION When drafting the country strategies to guide South Africa’s bilateral relations with identified countries and the continent, an
assessment will guide in terms of whether there are investment opportunities. A  quarterly progress report will consider the bilateral
engagements during the quarter and what investment opportunities were identified and pursued.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed/approved reports
ASSUMPTIONS Investment opportunities exist that can be pursued
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More investment opportunities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral Branches

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
93
INDICATOR TITLE Number of quarterly progress reports on regional trade strategies aligned with the INES
DEFINITION The MTSF has identified sourcing of new markets for South African products. The department, when drafting the country strategies to
guide bilateral relations, will explore the trade opportunities and consider how to implement the INES. A  quarterly progress report will
consider the bilateral engagements during the quarter and which trade opportunities were identified and pursued.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed/approved reports
ASSUMPTIONS Partner departments work together towards the same MTSF goal
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More trade opportunities identified and pursued.
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral Branches

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
94
INDICATOR TITLE Number of regional reports on the tourism-promotion events to promote South Africa as a preferred tourist destination
DEFINITION Engagements in tourism events with sector role-players (travel agencies and tour operators) in host governments in a concerted effort
to promote South Africa as a favourable tourism destination for business and leisure (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events)
and as a safe and value-for-money destination of choice. It is also part of the missions’ activities to promote South Africa at events such
as national days. It is also important for missions to identify the opportunities for increased tourist arrivals to South Africa, as well as the
barriers.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed/approved reports
ASSUMPTIONS Tourism-promotion events take place within the limitations of the global pandemic
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desired – an increase in tourist arrivals to contribute towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic
priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral Branches

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
95
INDICATOR TITLE Number of bi-annual assessment of South Africa’s contribution towards:
•	 peace
•	 stability
•	 socio-economic development
•	 good governance
•	 democracy
•	 regional integration, and the implementation of the RISDP
DEFINITION South Africa participates in regional meetings and structures in order to enhance regional integration and needs to regularly assess its
participation against the regional integration agenda. SADC has developed a RISDP for member states with specific projects to advance
regional integration.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: SADC
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed/approved reports
ASSUMPTIONS Partner departments submit the required information, indicating if there is progress in South Africa against the prioritised projects in the
RISDP
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desired – effective contribution towards peace, stability, socio-economic development, good governance,
democracy and regional integration; and the implementation of the revised RISDP towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic
priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Africa Bilateral

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
96
INDICATOR TITLE A long-term strategy for South Africa’s membership implemented
DEFINITION South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities reflected in the NDP as well as the
development agendas of developing countries. In order to influence the global processes, South Africa has to be clear on which
memberships to pursue, which ones will advance South Africa's foreign policy objectives.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF ASSESSMENT Assessment in terms of strategy developed and implemented (qualitative)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Membership to international organisations advance South Africa's foreign policy objectives
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annual
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Effective participation in advancing national priorities through South Africa's membership in international organisation
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
97
INDICATOR TITLE Number of reports on the outcomes of multilateral and multistate organisations reflecting South Africa's participation and
interests, including that of the African Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social development
DEFINITION South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities for South Africa itself as reflected in the NDP,
as well as to advance the objectives of Agenda 2063 and Agenda 2030. South Africa is not in control of the outcomes of multilateral
meetings and structures. Whether or not South Africa's national interests are reflected in these outcomes depend on negotiated
agreements and consensus reached. In many cases, the outcome represents the lowest common denominator.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Simple addition
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Interdepartmental meetings taking place to agree on South Africa’s position, having the country’s position approved prior to South Africa’s
participation at international fora
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE South Africa's foreign policy objectives pursued in areas of peace and security, human rights and economic and social development
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
98
INDICATOR TITLE Number of reports on South Africa’s international reporting obligations
DEFINITION South Africa has an international obligation to submit national reports in terms of international agreements it is a party to. Line-function
departments submit national reports, while DIRCO monitors the submission of the reports and provides feedback to Cabinet.
SOURCE OF DATA Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS The partner departments provide the required reports as per the reporting obligations
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annual
DESIRED PERFORMANCE South Africa’s 100% compliance with submitting national reports
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief State Law Adviser

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
99
INDICATOR TITLE Number of positions on identified influential multilateral bodies where South Africa is represented
DEFINITION South Africa has to identify and take up positions at influential multilateral bodies where we are represented. Most of these positions are
available on rotational basis and, once available, South Africa needs to field a suitable candidate and lobby for support in order to get the
candidate elected. South Africa is represented at identified multilateral bodies to promote its national interests and to influence resolutions,
decisions and outcomes.
Representation can be both at country level and at expert level.
SOURCE OF DATA Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Simple count (quantitative)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Positions exist in multilateral bodies. South Africa has skills with which SA citizen may be appointed .
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annual
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance for increased South African representation in multilateral bodies
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
100
INDICATOR TITLE Number of monitoring reports on South Africa’s contribution  to the operationalisation of identified Agenda 2063 flagship
projects
DEFINITION South Africa participates in the AU and its organs to advance the First Ten Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063 and its identified
flagship projects. The engagement is informed by South Africa's vision of an African continent, which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic,
non-racial, non-sexist and united, and which contributes to a world that is just and equitable. South Africa therefore endeavours to
contribute to the operationalisation of identified Agenda 2063 flagship projects.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Monitoring reports, AU progress reports
ASSUMPTIONS The relevant partner departments that lead the flagship projects within their mandate submit the information to DIRCO
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More flagship projects implemented or operationalised
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
101
INDICATOR TITLE Number of assessment reports reflecting how the outcomes of Africa partnerships are aligned to the AU Agenda 2063
DEFINITION South Africa supports identified partnerships (TICAD, FOCAC) to advance Agenda 2063 in line with its vision of an African continent,
which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial, non-sexist and united, and which contributes to a world that is just and equitable.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Assessment reports
ASSUMPTIONS South Africa participates in Africa partnerships
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Target performance is desirable
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
102
INDICATOR TITLE Number of reports on South Africa’s obligations to SADC and AU fulfilled
DEFINITION South Africa is a member to the AU and SADC, therefore, South Africa has to pay its membership fees as directed by the AU and SADC.
Apart from membership fees, certain commitments and undertakings can take place during AU and SADC meetings, which may require
South Africa to respond to such decisions. In 2020, South Africa served as Chair of the AU and therefore, had to fulfil its obligation AU
Chair.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Approved submissions, reports, South African submissions into the AU processes, and communiqués, decisions and declarations issued
by the AU and its various organs
ASSUMPTIONS Obligations for South Africa as derived from outcomes from AU and SADC processes and meetings
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Fulfill obligations and commitments
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
103
INDICATOR TITLE Percentage of South Africa’s commitments and efforts in order to resolve continental conflicts
DEFINITION South Africa participates in AU structures and processes charged with the promotion of peace and security on the continent, which include
the AU Peace and Security Council (AU Post-Reconstruction and Development Committee on Sudan), among others. These forums are
engaged with a view to strengthen the African Peace and Security Architecture by supporting the operationalisation of the African Standby
Force and the Continental Early Warning System.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION The following formula is used to calculate:
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Approved programmes of action, outcome reports, South Africa’s submissions into AU processes and communiqués, decisions and
declarations issued by the AU and its various organs (not signed)
ASSUMPTIONS Commitments and the resultant efforts for South Africa to resolve continental conflicts as derived from outcomes from AU processes and
meetings
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Target performance is desirable
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Approved submissions, programmes of action, outcome reports, South Africa’
 s submissions into AU processes, and communiqués,
decisions and declarations issued by the AU and its various organs

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
104
INDICATOR TITLE Number of reports on the outcomes of South-South engagements reflecting South Africa’ s participation and interests, including
that of the African Agenda
DEFINITION Participation in meetings and organisations of developing countries, commonly referred to as countries of the South, allows for the
development of common positions that reflect the needs of the developing countries and aim to exert greater influence in pursuing these
positions within multilateral forums. This also relates to minilateral/plurilateral arrangements (e.g. BRICS). There are objectives for South
Africa’s engagement and its participation is to achieve those objectives.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Branch: Asia and Middle East
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports and submissions
ASSUMPTIONS The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More outcomes on identified objectives
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
105
INDICATOR TITLE Number of reports on the outcomes of North-South engagements reflecting South Africa’ s participation and interests,
including that of the African Agenda
DEFINITION Strategic formations of the developed countries, usually referred to as countries of the North, are engaged to garner support for the
African Agenda and the Agenda of the South. These are countries usually considered to have influence in the global arena and also with
resources that can be channelled to the developing world. South Africa has identified what it wants to achieve through each of these
engagements and needs to regularly assess whether it is achieving those objectives.
SOURCE OF DATA Regional organisations (TICAD, EU)
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Approved reports, may be in the form of a submission
ASSUMPTIONS The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Biannually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More negotiated outcomes in line with South African objectives
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Regional organisations

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
106
INDICATOR TITLE Number of key messages distributed to missions on domestic and global developments
DEFINITION In order to have a better understanding and awareness of South Africa's foreign policy and communicate it through professional public
diplomacy services, the department will, in conjunction with Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), facilitate key
messages to be distributed to missions on domestic and global developments.  This will assist the missions to send one message on
key developments.
SOURCE OF DATA Public Diplomacy
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Key messages/statements issued by Public Diplomacy as received from GCIS on domestic and global developments
ASSUMPTIONS Key messages are available to be distributed
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More key messages/statements issued
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Public Diplomacy

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
107
INDICATOR TITLE Number of platforms utilised to inform and promote South Africa’s foreign policy to domestic and international audiences
DEFINITION Different platforms are utilised by the principals, i.e. Minister and Deputy Ministers, to engage on domestic and international
developments such as PPPs, media statements and opinion pieces.
A PPP is an outreach, conducted by the political principal, during which domestic audiences are engaged on foreign policy. In instances
where political principals are not available they are represented by the DDG, DG or other government ministries.
DIRCO utilises media statements and opinion pieces to inform opinion and communicate South Africa's foreign policy positions to
domestic and international audiences.

A media statement is a written communication directed at members of the news media for the purpose of announcing something
newsworthy, or keeping media informed of developments in the international arena.
An opinion piece is a written expression of thoughts on a particular political issue.
SOURCE OF DATA Public Diplomacy
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION PPPs: exit reports
Media statements: media statements and press releases issued by DIRCO and published on the DIRCO website
Opinion pieces:  published opinion pieces
ASSUMPTIONS Not applicable
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More PPP, Media statements, issued and opinion pieces published.
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Public Diplomacy

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
108
INDICATOR TITLE Percentage of requests for protocol services rendered to all in and outgoing state, official and working visits
DEFINITION Incoming and outgoing visits for the President, Deputy President and their counterparts in compliance with relevant legislation.
Categories of dignitaries:
Heads of State or Government, Spouses of Heads of State or Government, internationally recognised Kings/Queens at the level of
a Head of State, Deputy Heads of State/Government, Former Heads of State/Government, Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International
Relations, Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International Relations, Heads and Deputy Heads of Multilateral and Regional
Organisations, as determined by the policy on incoming international visits and Eminent Persons, as may be determined by the
Director-General of DIRCO.
Categories of visits:
State visits, official visits, working visits, special visits, bi-national and joint commissions, conferences and summits, special envoys and
private visits. Transit visits are excluded.
SOURCE OF DATA State Protocol
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed quarterly schedules for confirmed facilitated international visits of principals, including initiation and signed/approved exit reports
and/or submissions
ASSUMPTIONS Written requests. Delayed notifications which might allow very little lead time and/or notifications might only be received during or post a
visit. Sufficient resources.
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE All request received  responded to
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
109
INDICATOR TITLE Percentage of requests for consular assistance rendered
DEFINITION To render consular services and to protect the interests of all South Africans abroad as contemplated in the Vienna Convention on
Consular Relations, 1963. To monitor assistance provided by DIRCO to South Africa citizens abroad as per the Vienna Convention
governing consular relations.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Consular Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed statistics/reports
ASSUMPTIONS Confirmation that requests are received from South African citizens
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE All requests responded to
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
110
INDICATOR TITLE Percentage of documents legalized
DEFINITION Documents for use abroad are legalised and authenticated by the department.
Documents accepted for legalisation are processed in accordance with the guidelines set in the Service Delivery Charter. Legalisation is
guided by Chapter 20 of the Consular Handbook.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Consular Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed statistics/reports/registers
ASSUMPTIONS The authorised signatures for partner departments are available
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Respond to all requests received
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
111
INDICATOR TITLE Number of quarterly reports on payment of South Africa’s contribution to international organisations
DEFINITION The department is required to transfer payments, which arise from obligations undertaken by South Africa at an international, regional and
subregional multilateral levels. The payments, which are made by the department, generally take the form of:
•	 membership dues to organisations such as the UN, AU, SADC and the Commonwealth.
•	 contributions to peacekeeping operations of the UN
•	 meetings of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa is a member, and in which South Africa has
participated
•	 voluntary pledges that South Africa makes to international organisations for the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical
assistance, etc.
It should be noted that the payment depends on the assessment letters received from the international organisations.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Financial Management
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Proof of payment
ASSUMPTIONS Sufficient funds available
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desirable all payments made within the period due
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Financial and Assets Management

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
112
10. GLOSSARY OF TERMINOLOGY
African Agenda South Africa’s future is inextricably linked to that of Africa. The continent is therefore the cornerstone of South Africa’s foreign policy. The
concept and term, African Agenda, has been developed to describe the principal motive underpinning South Africa’s foreign policy for
the last more than 20 years. This African Agenda rests on five key pillars: contribute to regional and continental peace, security, stability
and sustainable development through the African Union; advance Africa’s socio-economic development through the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development; strengthen effective governance through mechanisms such as the African Peer Review Mechanism; seek
cooperation through international partnerships in support of Africa’s development; and develop regional economic communities as the
building blocs for continental economic development and integration.
AUPCRD Committee on Sudan The African Union Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development Ministerial Committee on Sudan was established in July 2003 to
facilitate post-conflict reconstruction and development efforts in that country.
Bilateral relations Bilateral relations are mainly conducted through formally accredited missions that spearhead on a daily basis the promotion of the
national interests of the sending country. These relations cover a wide spectrum such as political, economic, science and technology,
defence, consular and development cooperation, tourism, among others. South Africa conducts its diplomatic relations through 125
missions in 108 countries under the control of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO).
Strengthen relations This terminology generally refers to diplomatic actions aimed at expanding and deepening the political, trade, social, financial, economic
and security relationship and interactions between South Africa and another state. These actions can take many forms but usually
pertain to state visits, official visits, working visits, structured bilateral mechanisms and the daily activities of diplomatic missions.
State Visit A  State Visit is the highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and involves a formal visit by one Head of State to another.
It takes place at the invitation of the President of the Republic of South Africa and the recommendation of the Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation. During a State Visit, full ceremonial honours are accorded to a foreign Head of State. The duration of a
State Visit is three days (two nights). An extension of a State Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion of the President of the
Republic of South Africa. Extension of a State Visit beyond the set period without the approval of the President will be categorised as
a Private Visit.
Official Visit An Official Visit is the second-highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and is undertaken at the invitation of the host
to the relevant foreign counterpart. It takes place more frequently than a State Visit and can involve a Head of State or Government,
Deputy Head of State/Government, Minister/Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs/International Relations. Ceremonial and protocol honours
accorded are scaled down depending on the rank of the visiting counterpart.  The duration of an Official Visit will not exceed three days
(two nights). An extension of an Official Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion of the host. An extension of an Official Visit
beyond the set period without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Working Visit A  Working Visit is undertaken at the initiative of the foreign counterpart/dignitary without a formal invitation from a South African
counterpart. It requires prior approval from a South African counterpart. A visiting foreign counterpart/dignitary is not accorded full
ceremonial honours. The duration of a Working Visit will not exceed two days (one night).  An extension of a Working Visit beyond the
set period without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Special Visit A  Special Visit is undertaken by a foreign dignitary at the invitation of the Republic of South Africa, to represent their country or
organisation (e.g. the inauguration of a Head of State, ad-hoc meetings etc.) or attend a specific occasion (e.g. State funeral, etc.).
Bi-National and

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
113
Joint Commissions  Bi-national and joint commissions are regularised and formalised meetings undertaken by mutual agreement between South Africa
and the participating country. These meetings take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués,
agreements and/or other high-level decisions.
Visit by Special Envoy A  Special Envoy is a Representative appointed by a Head of State/Government or Head of Multilateral and Regional Organisation
in order to convey an official message to the President or Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa.  This visit is taken at the
initiative of the visiting country. Courtesies to be accorded are informed by the level of the Special Envoy.
Visit by Eminent Persons The Director-General (DG) of DIRCO determines the guests who would be accorded a status of Eminent Persons for a particular visit.
The Planning Committee of the specific visit, in consultation with the DG, decides on the courtesies to be accorded.
Private Visit A  Private Visit is an unofficial visit undertaken by a foreign dignitary as outlined by the policy on incoming international visits and
includes, but not restricted to, private business, medical treatment or holiday purposes.
High-Level Meeting The term, High-Level Meeting, is often employed to denote meetings of ministers and above. The content of these meetings could be
the same for state and official visits.
Senior Officials’ Meeting The most common meetings are between senior officials, i.e. below Cabinet level. Meetings of this nature often convene to prepare
for high-level meetings, exchange information and ideas, discuss technical issues, negotiate and draft agreements and communiqués/
declarations, assess the implementation of previous agreements and/or decisions, as well as to clarify positions and develop common
positions on issues of mutual interest.
Structured bilateral mechanism Structured bilateral mechanism  is a terminology reflecting the numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has
with other countries. These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués,
agreements and/or other high-level decisions. They usually comprise subcommittees or technical committees dealing with issues such
as global governance, Africa, strengthening trade and investment relations, tourism promotion, science and technology cooperation,
etc. Ministers and senior officials of departments concerned usually co-chair these subcommittees. Structured bilateral mechanisms
are co-chaired from the President downwards to the level of senior officials. These meetings usually meet under various designations
such as bi-national commissions, joint commissions, partnership forum, policy dialogue forum, policy forum, etc. The meetings usually
alternate between the countries concerned and can take place every six months, annually and in certain cases every two years,
depending on the importance of the issues on the agenda and the availability of the relevant ministers and senior officials. The
structured bilateral mechanism is one of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments for DIRCO to coordinate South
African positions and activities towards a particular country and to advance South Africa’
 s key priorities.
Early Warning A  concept utilised in conflict prevention referring to diplomatic analysis and reporting by states and regional bodies with the aim of
preventing the outbreak of large-scale conflict through appropriate preventative diplomacy.
Multilateralism A  global system of interaction between states, which is particularly important to small and medium-sized states as it gives all participating
states an equal voice and stake in programmes, projects and actions to address issues that affect their interests, those of their region
and issues of global concern. This multilateral rules-based system is the main counterbalance to unilateral and collective actions
undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states.
Multilateral Rules-based System  This system comprises all the United Nations (UN) bodies, agencies, funds, programmes and related organisations in association with
the UN, as well as conventions and agreements that provide for inclusive and equal participation by all states.
Bretton Woods Institutions The International Monetary Fund and International Bank of Reconstruction and Development were created by the Bretton Woods
Agreement at the UN Monetary and Financial Conference in 1944 to manage global economic and financial relations.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
114
Promotion of the multilateral system Promoting the use and strengthening of the multilateral system of collective decision-making between states and countering the
damaging effects of unilateral and collective actions undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states such
as South Africa.
Disarmament and non-proliferation A  system of multilateral agreements, conventions and controls in which all states can equally participate and which is aimed at ridding
the world of weapons of mass destruction and limiting the spread and control the use of conventional weapons, including small-arms
and light weapons.
Major international conferences South Africa places great emphasis on multilateralism and the reform of global governance. To contribute to a better world and the
reform of global governance, South Africa has hosted some major international conferences, the outcomes of which contribute to the
advancements of humanity. DIRCO has a special responsibility to follow up on the outcomes and decisions of all major international
conferences hosted since 1990.
United Nations (UN) Development
Agenda The UN Development Agenda was negotiated in New York as a follow-up to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The result
was the adoption of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), under the heading: “Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development”, in 2015. South Africa was among countries that were at the forefront of negotiating the development
agenda.
Repositioning of the UN Development
System (UNDS)  In May 2018, the UN General Assembly (UNGA) adopted a landmark consensus resolution on the repositioning of the UNDS, with the
aim of better supporting member states towards the realisation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop ment). South Africa actively
participated in the negotiations at the UN in New York to ensure that the UN Development Agenda continues to remain compatible with
the development agenda of South Africa and the South, as well as African Union (AU) aspirations.
Agenda 2063 Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future.
It is the continent’s strategic framework that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development and is a concrete
manifestation of the Pan-African drive for unity, self-determination, freedom, progress and collective prosperity pursued under Pan-
Africanism and the African Renaissance The genesis of Agenda 2063 was the realisation by African leaders that there was a need
to refocus and reprioritise Africa’s agenda from the struggle against apartheid and the attainment of political independence for the
continent, which had been the focus of the Organisation of African Unity, the precursor of the AU; and instead to prioritise inclusive
social and economic development, continental and regional integration, democratic governance and peace and security, among other
issues, aimed at repositioning Africa to becoming a dominant player in the global arena.
First 10-year Implementation
Plan (FTY-IP) The FTYIP of Agenda 2063 (2013 – 2023) is the first in a series of five 10-year plans over the 50-year horizon of Agenda 2063’s time
frame.
The purpose for developing the 10-year plans are to:
•	 identify priority areas, set specific targets and define strategies and policy measures required to implement the FTYIP of Agenda
2063

•	 bring to fruition the fast-track programmes and initiatives outlined in the Malabo Decisions of the AU to provide the big push and
breakthroughs for Africa’s economic and social transformation
•	 provide information to all key stakeholders at national, regional and continental levels on the expected results/outcomes for the first
10 years of the plan and assign responsibilities to all stakeholders in its implementation, monitoring and evaluation
•	 outline the strategies required to ensure availability of resources and capacities together with citizens’ engagement in the implementation
of the FTYIP.
The goals and priority areas of the FTYIP were influenced by four key factors:
• the flagship projects/programmes of Agenda 2063
• near term national and regional economic communities’ (RECs) development priorities
• continental frameworks
• Agenda 2063 Results Framework.
African Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) The establishment of the AfCFTA, which entered into force on 30 May 2019, is a key priority of Africa´s Agenda 2063 and a flagship
project for the continent. The AfCFTA is the world’s largest single market of over 1.2 billion consumers, stimulating intra-Africa trade and
investment and growing gross domestic product to US$3.4 trillion.
Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA) The TFTA is an initiative between three RECs, namely: the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the East African
Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and will be achieved by amalgamating the economies of
the three regions with a combined market of 26 countries, which constitute half of the Member States of the African Union, a population
of 625 million people and a combined GDP of US$833 billion. The TFTA is anchored on three pillars; market integration, infrastructure
development, and industrial development and is a precursor to the vision of realizing an economically integrated continent.
Regional Economic Integration South Africa’s foreign policy is anchored in domestic priorities with the main aim of consolidating regional integration with particular
emphasis on improving the political and economic integration of SADC.  SADC and the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) are
primary vehicles for regional economic integration. They are important building blocs to achieve the COMESA-EAC-SADC TFTA and the
AfCFTA.
SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in two tracks, namely political and security integration and economic integration. Critical to the
objectives of regional economic integration is the realisation of the TFTA, as well as the AfCFTA, both aimed at boosting industrial and
infrastructure development and enhancing intra-regional trade.
Strategic Partnership A  Strategic Partnership, such as that of the Africa-European Union (EU), provides an overarching long-term framework for inter-continental
relations aimed at promoting economic cooperation, sustainable development, peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and
human dignity for the benefit of its members.
Economic diplomacy “Economic diplomacy” is the new reality in the achievement of national interests through diplomatic means and complements traditional
“political diplomacy”. DIRCO will use economic diplomacy to contribute in a more direct and concrete manner to achieve poverty
eradication, job creation and socio-economic development and growth, primarily by utilising the resources it has in its missions abroad.
Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) China’ s BRI aims to connect Asia, Europe and Africa along five routes. The infrastructure projects, which are part of the BRI, mostly run
through some of China’s poorest and least developed regions and could provide a stimulus to help cushion the effects of the deepening
slowdown of the Chinese economy. China is also hoping that, by improving connectivity between its underdeveloped southern and

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
116
western provinces, its richer eastern coast, and the countries along its periphery, the BRI will improve China’s internal economic
integration and competitiveness and spur more regionally balanced growth. Moreover, the construction is intended to help make use of
China’s enormous industrial overcapacity and ease the entry of Chinese goods into regional markets.
Pluralistic    A pluralistic society is a diverse one, where the people in it believe all kinds of different things and tolerate each other’s beliefs even
     when they don’t match their own. Pluralism is a  social philosophy that seeks to allow many different viewpoints to coexist within a
     larger structure. A pluralist society, system of government or organisation, contains many groups that keep their identities while also
     participating in the larger group.
Plurilateral A plurilateral agreement is a multinational legal or trade agreement between countries. In economic jargon, it is an agreement between
more than two countries, but not a great many, which would be a multilateral agreement.
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action
(JCPOA) The JCPOA, more commonly known as the Iran nuclear deal or Iran deal, is an agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme between
Iran and the P5+1 (the five permanent members of the UN Security Council: China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States
(US), plus Germany) together with the EU. On 8 May 2018, former Donald President Trump announced the US’ withdrawal from the
JCPOA.
United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA) The North American Free Trade Agreement was renegotiated and replaced by the USMCA. The latter is expected to reshape North
American economic relations and is in line with former President Trump’s aim to give American manufacturers an advantage over their
competitors and gain increased market access for US farmers into the Canadian dairy market. On 20 June 2019, the Senate of Mexico
ratified the agreement. Mexico’s ratification procedure will be completed when the President announces the ratification in the Federal
Register. The processes to ratify the agreement by the US and Canada are not completed yet.
India, Brazil, South Africa (IBSA Fund) The IBSA Fund for the Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger has undertaken various projects in 21 partner countries. Since its inception in
2006, the fund has disbursed US$36 million in financial contributions with the aim of facilitating the implementation of 27 projects. The
fund has been providing a unique opportunity for strengthening trilateral cooperation with developing countries through a steady flow
of resources and continues to play an important role in sharing their respective developmental experiences.
Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF) 2019 –2024
 The MTSF is a high-level strategic document to guide the five-year implementation and monitoring of the National Development Plan
2030. In line with the electoral mandate, it identifies the priorities to be undertaken during 2019 to 2024 to put the country on a positive
trajectory towards the achievement of the 2030 vision. It sets targets for the implementation of the priorities and interventions for the
five-year period and states the outcomes and indicators to be monitored.
The seven priorities derived from the 2019 electoral mandate and State of the Nation Address are:
•	 Priority 1: Economic Transformation and Job Creation
•	 Priority 2: Education, Skills and Health
•	 Priority 3: Consolidating the Social Wage through Reliable and Quality Basic Services

•	 Priority 4: Spatial Integration, Human Settlements and Local Government
•	 Priority 5: Social Cohesion and Safe Communities
•	 Priority 6: A Capable, Ethical and Developmental State
•	 Priority 7: A Better Africa and World.
African values of Ubuntu /
Diplomacy of Ubuntu South Africa is a multifaceted, multicultural and multiracial country that embraces the concept of Ubuntu as a way of defining who we
are and how we relate to others. The philosophy of Ubuntu means “humanity” and is reflected in the idea that we affirm our humanity
when we affirm the humanity of others. It has played a major role in the forging of a South African national consciousness and in the
process of its democratic transformation and nation-building.
South Africa’s unique approach to global issues has found expression in the concept of Ubuntu. These concepts inform our particular
approach to diplomacy and shape our vision of a better world for all. This philosophy translates into an approach to international
relations that respects all nations, peoples and cultures. It recognises that it is in our national interest to promote and support the
positive development of others.
South Africa therefore accords central importance to its immediate African neighbourhood and continent; working with countries of
the South to address shared challenges of underdevelopment; promoting global equity and social justice; working with countries
of the North to develop a true and effective partnership for a better world; and doing our part to strengthen the multilateral system,
including its transformation, to reflect the diversity of our nations, and ensure its centrality in global governance.
Global multilateral system of
governance This refers to a rules-based international system in which priorities in the economic, social welfare, human rights and security areas,
aimed at improving the quality of life of all South African citizens, peoples of Africa and the rest of the developing world, are advanced.
Bearing in mind the centrality of the UN Charter and the principles of international law, South Africa promotes these global development,
social, security and human rights issues through participation in the international debate, notably the UN system, its specialised
agencies and other international fora, in order to promote a responsive and accountable global governance system to better answer
the needs of vulnerable and developing countries.

Global balance of forces The global system is still characterised by primary unipolarity and secondary multipolar features. This is reflected, among others,
in the emergence of China as a world power and the rise of Asia, the quasi- autonomy of regional alliances such as the EU, Latin
American states, BRICS and other such cross-regional partnerships.
It also refers to how a country or grouping protects itself against another nation or group of nations by matching its power against the
power of the other side.
Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) The 4IR refers to a series of social, political, cultural, and economic upheavals that will unfold over the 21st century.  Building on the
widespread availability of digital technologies that were the result of the Third Industrial, or Digital, Revolution,  the 4IR will be driven
largely by the convergence of digital, biological and physical innovations, such as the fifth generation wireless technology for digital
cellular networks, the Internet of Things, machine learning, artificial intelligence, genome editing, augmented reality, robotics and 3-D
printing.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
118

Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan (RISDP)


These technologies are rapidly changing the way humans  create, exchange and distribute value. The result of all this is  societal
transformation at a global scale. By affecting the incentives, rules and norms of economic life, it transforms how we communicate,
learn, entertain ourselves and relate to one another and how we understand ourselves as human beings. Furthermore, the sense
that new technologies are being developed and implemented at an increasingly rapid pace, has an impact on human identities,
communities and political structures.
The RISDP is a comprehensive development and implementation framework guiding the regional integration agenda of
the SADC  over a period of 15 years (2005 – 2020). It is designed to provide clear strategic direction with respect to SADC
programmes, projects and activities in line with the SADC Common Agenda and strategic priorities, as enshrined in the SADC
Treaty of 1992. The original plan was approved by the SADC Summit in 2003. Through concrete priorities, programmes and
targets, the RISDP allows all parties involved to keep track of progress made, and to obtain guidance for prioritisation.
The ultimate objective of the plan is to deepen integration in the region with a view to accelerate poverty eradication and the
attainment of other economic and non-economic development goals.
Priority areas of the RISDP:
• Trade and Economic Liberalisation
• Regional Infrastructure and Services Development for Regional Integration
• Sustainable Food Security
• Social and Human Development
• Cross-cutting Issues, including Gender and Development, HIV and AIDS, Science and Technology, Environment and
Sustainable Development, Private Sector, and Statistics.

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
119
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A
ACP  African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States
AfCFTA African Continental Free Trade Agreement
AGOA  Africa Growth and Opportunity Act
AUC   African Union Commission
AU   African Union
AUPSC  AU Peace and Security Council
B
BRICS   Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
C
COMESA  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CAHOSCC  Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change
D
DDG   Deputy Director-General
DG   Director-General
DIRCO   Department of International Relations and Cooperation
DTRD  Diplomatic Training, Research and Development
E
EAC   East Africa Community
EPA   Economic Partnership Agreement
EU   European Union
G
G77   Group of 77 (plus China)
I
IBSA   India, Brazil and South Africa Dialogue Forum
IMF  International Monetary Fund
IORA   Indian Ocean Rim Association
M
MTSF  Medium Term Strategic Framework

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
120
N
NDP  National Development Plan
NSDS  National Skills Development Strategy
O
OECD   Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
P
PTA  Preferential Trade Agreement
R
RISDP   Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan
S
SACU   Southern African Customs Union
SADC   Southern African Development Community
SDGs  Sustainable Development Goals
T
TFTA  T ripartite Free Trade Area
TIDCA  T rade, Investment and Development Cooperation Agreement
TNPW  T reaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons
U
UN   United Nations
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
UNSC   United Nations Security Council
W
WEF  W orld Economic Forum
WIPO   W orld Intellectual Property Organisation
WTO  W orld Trade Organisation

Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan for 2021 – 2022
121
11. ANNEXURE "A"
Amendment to the 2020-2025 Strategic Plan to include the outcome for Programme 5: International Transfers:
OUTCOME OUTCOME INDICATOR BASELINE FIVE-YEAR TARGET
Strenghten multilateralism through
membership fees and contributions
South Africa's memberships fees paid in
full on time Not available 100% of membership fees paid in
full and on time