seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/DIRCO-AR-2022_23-Digital.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/DIRCO-AR-2022_23-Digital.pdf
title: DIRCO-AR-2022_23-Digital.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

International Relations and Cooperation
Department:
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
international relations
& cooperation
DEPART MENT OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATI ONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO )
VOTE 6
ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23

ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO)

Vote 6
ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23

2
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
CONTENTS

3ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PART A: GENERAL INFORMATION 6
1. DEPARTMENT GENERAL INFORMATION  6
2. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS 6
3. FOREWORD BY THE MINISTER 7
4. REPORT OF THE ACCOUNTING OFFICER 10
5. STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY AND CONFIRMATION OF ACCURACY
FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT 18
6. STRATEGIC OVERVIEW 19
6.1. Vision  19
6.2. Mission 19
6.3. Values 19
7 . LEGISLATIVE AND OTHER MANDATES 19
7.1. Constitutional mandates 19
7.2. Legislative mandates 19
7.3. Policy mandates 20
8. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 21
9. ENTITIES REPORTING TO THE MINISTER 22
PART B: PERFORMANCE INFORMATION 24
1. AUDITOR–GENERAL’S REPORT: PREDETERMINED OBJECTIVES 24
2. OVERVIEW OF DEPARTMENTAL PERFORMANCE 24
2.1. Service-delivery environment 24
2.2. Service–Delivery Improvement Plan 25
2.3. Organisational environment 30
2.4. Key policy developments and legislative changes 30
3. ACHIEVEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL IMPACTS AND OUTCOMES 30
4. INSTITUTIONAL PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE INFORMATION 39
4.1. Programme 1: Administration 39
4.2. Programme 2: International Relations 52
4.3. Programme 3: International Cooperation 119
4.4. Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services 186
4.5. Programme 5: International Transfers 192
5. TRANSFER PA YMENTS 193
5.1. Transfer payments to public entities  193
5.2. Transfer payments to all organisations other than public entities 195
6. CONDITIONAL GRANTS 196
7 . DONOR FUNDS 196
8. CAPITAL INVESTMENT 196
8.1. Capital investment, maintenance and asset management plan 196

4
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PART C: GOVERNANCE 202
1. INTRODUCTION 202
2. RISK MANAGEMENT 202
3. FRAUD AND CORRUPTION  202
4. MINIMISING CONFLICT OF INTEREST 203
5. CODE OF CONDUCT  203
6. HEALTH SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 203
7 . PORTFOLIO COMMITTEES 204
8. SCOPA RESOLUTIONS 204
9. PRIOR MODIFICATIONS TO AUDIT REPORTS 205
10. INTERNAL CONTROL UNIT 205
11. INTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE 205
12. AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 208
13. B–BBEE COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE INFORMATION 210
PART D: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 212
1. INTRODUCTION  212
2. OVERVIEW OF HUMAN RESOURCES  212
3. HUMAN RESOURCES OVERSIGHT STATISTICS  214
3.1. PERSONNEL–RELATED EXPENDITURE 214
3.2. EMPLOYMENT AND VACANCIES 216
3.3. FILLING OF SMS POSTS 218
3.4. JOB EVALUATION 221
3.5. EMPLOYMENT CHANGES 223
3.6. EMPLOYMENT EQUITY  226
3.7. SIGNING OF PERFORMANCE AGREEMENTS BY SMS MEMBERS 230
3.8. PERFORMANCE REWARDS 231
3.9. FOREIGN WORKERS 233
3.10. LEAVE UTILISATION  235
3.11. HIV/AIDS AND HEALTH PROMOTION PROGRAMMES  237
3.12. LABOUR RELATIONS 240
3.13. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT 243
3.14. INJURY ON DUTY 245
3.15. UTILISATION OF CONSULTANTS  245
3.16. SEVERANCE PACKAGES 246
PART E: PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT 248
1. IRREGULAR, FRUITLESS AND WASTEFUL, UNAUTHORISED
 EXPENDITURE AND MATERIAL LOSSES  248
1.1. Irregular expenditure 248
1.2. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure 250
1.3. Unauthorised expenditure 252
1.4. Additional disclosure relating to material losses in terms of the PFMA
Section 40(3)(b)(i) &(iii)) 252
2. LATE AND/OR NON–PA YMENT OF SUPPLIERS 253
3. SUPPL Y CHAIN MANAGEMENT 254
3.1. Procurement by other means 254
3.2. Contract variations and expansions 260
PART F: FINANCIAL INFORMATION 262
1. REPORT OF THE AUDITOR–GENERAL  263
2. ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 274-411

PART A:
GENERAL INFORMATION
5ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

6
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1. DEPARTMENT GENERAL INFORMATION
Physical address: OR Tambo Building
 460 Soutpansberg Road
 Rietondale, Pretoria
0084, Republic of South Africa
Postal address: Private Bag X152
 Pretoria
 0001, Republic of South Africa
Telephone number/s: 0027 12 351 1000
Fax number: 0027 12 329 1000
Email address: info@dirco.gov.za
Website address: www.dirco.gov.za
2. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
AGSA Auditor–General of South Africa
AO Accounting Officer
ARF African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund
AfCFTA African Continental Free Trade Area
AU African Union
B-BBEE Broad–Based Black Economic Empowerment
BRICS Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
CFO Chief Financial Officer
DIRCO Department of International Relations and Cooperation
EU European Union
G20 Group of 19 countries plus the European Union
IORA Indian Ocean Rim Association
MTEF Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NDP National Development Plan
NEPAD New Partnership for Africa’s Development
PFMA Public Finance Management Act
SADC Southern African Development Community
UNGA United Nations General Assembly
UNSC United Nations Security Council
PART A: GENERAL INFORMATION

7ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
3. FOREWORD BY THE MINISTER
South Africa has resisted
becoming embroiled in the politics
of confrontation and aggression
that has been advocated by the
powerful countries.
I am pleased to present this Annual Report of
the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) for the reporting period
2022/23.
Throughout this reporting period, the world has
been through a tumultuous time in international
relations. While COVID–19 had presented enormous
challenges, the protracted conflict in Europe has
introduced more difficulties for us all. Despite the
many complicated challenges, our department
continued its focus on our core tasks. These are to
strengthen bilateral relations, play an effective role
in multilateral institutions, provide services to our
citizens abroad and support our government in
achieving the objectives of inclusive growth, peace
and development in South Africa, Africa and the
world. South Africa’s engagements are premised
on the need to promote the priorities reflected in
the National Development Plan and to advance our
national interests and those of Africa and the global
South.
We are living in an increasingly fractured and
complex world. Global divisions are concerning and
divert attention away from the United Nations’ (UN)
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine has
dragged in more outside powers, escalated arms
sales to the region and presents a real and present
danger to international peace and security. The most
powerful economies are also in a fractious trade
conflict that threatens smaller economies.
The consequences of these developments are that the
poor and most needy are increasingly marginalised
and pledges to assist in debt reduction and
development assistance have often not materialised.
The world has witnessed food inflation, high energy
prices, high interest rates, sluggish economic growth
and rising uncertainty. The higher levels of carbon
emissions due to the exponential use of coal across
the globe since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine has
hampered plans to slow climate change. As DIRCO,
we have urged a return to peace, multilateralism and
partnerships for development.
The globe’s interdependence and interconnectedness
have starkly exposed our mutual vulnerability,
especially in times of crisis. South Africa has resisted
becoming embroiled in the politics of confrontation
and aggression that has been advocated by the
powerful countries.

8
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Together with several developing countries, we
have asserted our own independent non–aligned
approach based on the peaceful resolution of the war
in Ukraine through dialogue and negotiation.
It is our hope that formations such as BRICS will play
a transformative role in bringing about greater global
collaboration and the pursuance of a progressive
international development agenda. As Chair of BRICS
for 2023, we hope the BRICS leaders, in conjunction
with a select group of African leaders, can assume
a greater role in bringing peace to Ukraine and
Russia. We have noted the growing interest in BRICS
and believe this indicates that many countries are
searching for a multipolar forum that is modern,
inclusive and for the good of all.
We are encouraged by the growth and resilience of the
BRICS New Development Bank and have welcomed
the new members. The bank has assisted members
to secure funding to address infrastructure needs,
support the unblocking of regional value chains and
localisation of production capacity. Our partnership
with BRICS has resulted in tangible benefits for our
country in a wide range of sectors.
Our priorities for BRICS this year are to develop a
partnership towards an equitable just transition,
transform education and skills development for the
future, unlock opportunities through the African
Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), strengthen
post–pandemic economic recovery and strengthen
multilateralism. Our focus on BRICS will be
implemented alongside continued work to retain and
strengthen links with Europe, North America, Latin
America, Asia and the Middle East. All these regions
are important trading partners for South Africa.
DIRCO continues to prioritise support for the UN as
the central pillar of the international system in terms
of maintaining peace and security and contributing
to the SDGs. For this global body to prove more
effective in its work, we will need to continue to
push for stronger reform measures, particularly the
transformation of the UN Security Council (SC) into a
more representative and democratic body.
DIRCO waged a successful campaign last year for
South Africa to serve for three years on the UN
Human Rights Council (HRC). South Africa received the
highest number of votes of the candidate countries
standing for the HRC; a resounding 182 votes out of
a maximum possible total of 190. The vote outcome
reflects the appreciation of member states for the
constructive and principled role that our country
plays in promoting human rights internationally.
Strengthening multilateralism is the only means
of addressing our global challenges, which are
monumental. It is through the building of trust and
real cooperation that we will succeed in achieving our
objectives. As the only African country within the G20,
we will continue to champion the African Agenda and
the interests of the global South within that forum.

9ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
We are pleased that the G20 has agreed that the
African Union (AU) must be a permanent presence
at the group, and we look forward to working closely
with the AU to profile our development agenda.
DIRCO remains committed to the AU’s forward–
thinking development framework Agenda 2063, and
has been driving regional integration processes, as
we need cooperation within the continent to address
low levels of industrialisation, weak infrastructure
and underdevelopment. South Africa has continued
to implement the Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan (RISDP) within the Southern
African Development Community (SADC).
DIRCO has also focussed on the implementation
of the AfCFTA as a critical lever for the economic
transformation of Africa. Africa’s development
requires integrating its markets, expanding productive
capacity across the continent and developing regional
value chains that integrate African economies. Our
missions on the continent are working with our
partners to capitalise on the opportunities created by
the AfCFTA to address the challenges of high youth
unemployment, poverty and inequality.
Last year, we concluded our term as Chair of the
SADC Organ on Peace, Defence and Security. South
Africa led efforts to support the peace mission in
Mozambique and engaged with Eswatini to encourage
efforts to establish national unity. President Cyril
Ramaphosa also concluded the SADC facilitation
process in Lesotho and tabled his final report to the
SADC Summit in August 2022. Lesotho held successful
elections last year and is actively implementing the
reform agenda adopted by the National Reforms
Authority.
We will be serving in the AU Peace and Security Council
for two years and hope that intensified efforts will
be given to finding peace in Northern Mozambique,
Sudan, South Sudan, Mali, Libya, Chad and Burkina
Faso.
South Africa was honoured to host the AU–led peace
talks between the Government of Ethiopia and the
Tigray People’s Liberation Front in November last
year, and we were pleased that a peace agreement
was signed. We will continue to monitor the
implementation of the peace agreement.
Last year, we undertook to increasingly focus
on economic diplomacy in the department. Our
missions have been playing a leading role in assisting
government in all spheres in their international
cooperation efforts. A specific area of progress has
been to provide government and The Presidency
with economic diplomacy assistance for growing
foreign direct investment into South Africa. We have
made economic diplomacy a critical aspect of our
missions’ work and we are pleased at the continuing
interest many companies have shown in South Africa
as an investment destination. We are focussed on
increasing trade and investment opportunities and
inward tourism to stimulate economic growth.
I would like to commend the department for
overcoming the financial and human resource
constraints that confronted us during the reporting
period and doing more with less. I would also like
to express heartfelt gratitude to the two Deputy
Ministers, Ms Candith Mashego–Dlamini and Mr Alvin
Botes, for their sterling support and leadership to
DIRCO. I wish to thank the Director–General of DIRCO,
Mr Zane Dangor, for his dedicated leadership, as well
as staff and management for their tireless efforts in
executing DIRCO’s mandate.
DR GRACE NALEDI MANDISA PANDOR
MINISTER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Date: 19/09/2023

10
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
4. REPORT OF THE ACCOUNTING OFFICER
The main objectives of South Africa’s
fully committed engagement in BRICS
have been to enhance the future growth
and development of South Africa and
to strengthen intra–BRICS relations and
mutually beneficial cooperation across the
three pillars of cooperation, namely policy
and security, economy and finance, culture
and people–to–people exchanges.
S
outh Africa’s foreign policy is guided by the
Constitution and its founding principles.
The strategic focus of the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
is guided by the National Development Plan
(NDP) Vision 2030, as unpacked in the Medium
Term Strategic Framework (MTSF) 2019 – 2024,
which is in line with the African Union’s (AU)
Agenda 2063, the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan and the United Nations’ (UN)
Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (SDGs)
Agenda. The department is further guided by
the policy directives of South Africa’s political
principals, especially the President’s State of the
Nation Address.
During the year under review, it was evident that
the COVID–19 pandemic had a severe impact on
most socio–economic activities globally. It has been
estimated that the pandemic has pushed back the
attainment of the 2030 SDGs for less-developed
economies by a decade. In addition, crises, such as
the war in the Ukraine and the global energy crisis,
raised fears of a global recession.
During the reporting period, Africa remained the focal
point of South Africa’s foreign policy. South Africa’s
foreign policy orientation is, among others, grounded
in the ideals of Pan–Africanism and a commitment
to African multilateralism with the AU at its core and,
as a fundamental principle, the consolidation of the
African Agenda.
The SADC remains the primary vehicle for South
Africa’s foreign policy to achieve regional development
and integration within southern Africa. South
Africa contributes within SADC towards regional
initiatives geared towards peace, security, stability
and sustainable development and the advancement
of socio–economic development, through active
participation in relevant structures, as envisaged in
the SADC Treaty. Of critical importance to South Africa
has been the area of politics, peace and security.
Accordingly, South Africa supported the promotion of
democracy, good governance as well as human rights
in the region.
During the year under review, South Africa actively
participated in the structures of the AU and in April
2022, assumed a two–year membership of the AU
Peace and Security Council.

11ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
South Africa successfully hosted the AU–led peace
talks between the Government of Ethiopia and
the Tigray People’s Liberation Front during 2022 and
we will continue to monitor the i mplementation of
the peace agreement.
Regarding South–South cooperation, South Africa
pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among
countries and groupings of the South to develop
common positions on political, economic, social
and human rights issues as an effective response
in addressing the historic marginalisation of these
countries. During the year under review, South Africa,
therefore, used its engagements with identified
countries to the benefit of South Africa and the
African continent. South Africa continued to leverage
strategic regional groupings such as BRICS, IBSA and
the Indian Ocean Rim Association to improve trade
flows and build consensus in multilateral groupings.
The development of common positions on political,
economic, social and human rights issues remains
essential in addressing the historic marginalisation of
countries of the South.
The main objectives of South Africa’s fully committed
engagement in BRICS have been to enhance the
future growth and development of South Africa and
to strengthen intra–BRICS relations and mutually
beneficial cooperation across the three pillars of
cooperation, namely political and security, economic
and financial, and culture and people–to–people
cooperation. As the only African country in BRICS,
South Africa will during its Chairship of BRICS in
2023 continue placing the African continent and the
global South on the agenda of BRICS to synchronise
policies, such as Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development.
During the reporting period, multilateral engagements
among countries and groupings of the South and,
in turn, their engagements with the North, were
aimed at advancing South Africa’s foreign policy
priorities through the pursuit of regional political and
economic integration and the promotion of Africa’s
development.
The European Union (EU), as a bloc, is South Africa’s
largest trading partner and largest foreign investor. In
line with the view expressed in the NDP that Europe
may continue to be a powerful political economic
force in the world for at least the next 20 to 30 years,
South Africa continues to build its relations with the
EU. South Africa has a strong trade relationship with
the EU, and in the context of the South Africa–EU
Strategic Partnership and the SADC–EU Economic
Partnership Agreement (EPA), the legal framework
remains in place to protect and enhance trade
relations with the EU.
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa’s
foreign policy and engagements are premised on the
need to advance the priorities reflected in the NDP and
the development priorities of developing countries.
The UN remains the most important multilateral
institution and the centre of global governance.
Therefore, engagement with the UN and active
participation in its processes, are of vital importance
to South Africa and the advancement of the country’s
foreign policy priorities. A key priority in South Africa’s
engagement with the UN is to continue to advance the
reform of the existing global governance architecture
with a view to improving its responsiveness to the
needs of, and challenges faced by, developing states.
The UNSC does not reflect current global political and
economic realities and a key priority is to advance the
reform of the existing global governance architecture
with a view to improving its responsiveness to the
needs of developing states.
In 2022, South Africa was elected to serve in the
Human Rights Council (HRC) for the period 2023 to
2025. Our participation will continue to be inspired
by our strategic objectives. The HRC is where South
Africa can play a constructive and meaningful
role and promote international cooperation and
multilateralism in the field of human rights.
DIRCO has embarked on a long–term strategy for
its membership of multilateral organisations, which
includes the submission of candidatures of suitably
qualified South Africans in key strategic positions in
international organisations.
Regarding bilateral relations, South Africa’s continued
engagements with strategic partners was a response
to addressing the country’s national priorities as
reflected in the NDP. Structured bilateral mechanisms
and high–level visits provide a strategic platform and
tool to advance and promote bilateral relations and

12
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
cooperation with sister countries. They are utilised,
not only to advance National Interest, but also to
establish a common position on issues relating to the
global and continental agendas.
During the reporting year, South Africa and
its missions focussed on increasing trade and
investment into South Africa, through focussed
trade and investment promotion; pursuing export
promotion; identifying new markets; and promoting
South Africa as a preferred tourism destination in line
with the objectives of the Economic Reconstruction
and Recovery Plan, which focusses on interventions
aimed at restoring growth and creating jobs. The
department, through its missions, also undertook
political work aligned to the NDP and MTSF. DIRCO will
continue with its economic diplomacy to contribute
in a more direct and concrete manner to achieve
poverty eradication, job creation and socio–economic
development and growth, primarily by utilising the
resources it has in its missions abroad.
As part of cementing bilateral relations, President Cyril
Ramaphosa paid state and working visits to identified
countries and hosted various heads of state and
government in South Africa. Bilateral engagements
were also conducted by the Minister and Deputy
Ministers. The focus of the majority of these
interactions was economic diplomacy. The outcomes
of these engagements are manifested through direct
and indirect investment by key partners in strategic
sectors of our economy.
As was the case in previous years, DIRCO continued
to communicate South Africa’s role and position
in international relations in both the domestic and
international arenas. The department continued to
work towards an increased understanding of South
Africa’s foreign policy engagements by both local
and international audiences through the use of
various platforms, such as media briefings and public
participation programmes, and stimulated debate
through dialogue and public lectures on various
topical issues in the purview of international relations.
Furthermore, the principals articulated South
Africa’s positions on international developments
through well–researched opinion pieces, which were
publicised to ensure broader reach of the public.
Similarly, the department and, in particular, the
principals, remained accessible to the public through
media engagements during which topical issues
were extrapolated for the benefit of the respective
audience.
The Branch: State Protocol and Consular Services
continued to play a pivotal role in the coordination
of the international engagements of our political
principals. The branch continued to facilitate the
arrival and departure of dignitaries through the state
protocol lounges, provided hospitality services to the
President, Deputy President, Minister and Deputy
Ministers of International Relations and Cooperation,
and also rendered protocol support to the second
and third spheres of government. As host to one of
the largest concentration of diplomats globally, DIRCO
continued to provide support to the foreign diplomatic
and consular officials hosted in the Republic of South
Africa. The branch also provided important consular
services to South Africans travelling, working, studying
and living abroad.
During the year under review, the department
continued with the process of organisational renewal
as a tool to assist the organisation to achieve its
identified strategic objectives. This required the
department to review and finalise its organisational
structure to align it with its Strategic Plan and the
priorities of the MTSF 2019 – 2024.
The Foreign Service Act, 2019 (Act 26 of 2019) and
its regulations came into force on 25 August 2022.
The purpose of the Act is to professionalise the
Foreign Service and provide a legislative mandate to
the department by providing for the management,
administration, accountability and functioning of a
professional Foreign Service and the operational
requirements that are suitable and supportive of
the operations of the Foreign Service in a global
environment. This will ensure future coherent foreign
policy implementation. The department is currently in
the process of developing the necessary regulations
to ensure the full and effective implementation of the
Act.

13ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
Overview of the operations of the department
Significant events and projects that were undertaken during the year, its results as well as departmental challenges are highlighted under each programme in Part B:
Performance Information.
Overview of the financial results of the department
Departmental receipts
Departmental Receipts
2022/23 2021/22
Estimate
Actual
(Over)/Under
Collection Estimate
Actual
(Over)/Under
CollectionAmount
Collected
Amount
Collected
 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Tax receipts – – – – – –
Sale of goods and services other than capital assets  1 900  1 137  763  1 065  1 672  (607)
Transfers received  – –  –  – –  –
Fines, penalties and forfeits   34  (34)  –  –  –
Interest, dividends and rent on land  788  2 940  (2 152)  634  774  (140)
Sale of capital assets  1 355  1 531  (176)  3 509  5 257  (1 748)
Financial transactions in assets and liabilities  59 096  180 512  (121 416)  34 953  56 278  (21 325)
Total  63 139  186 154  (123 015)  40 161  63 981  (23 820)
Departmental receipts are mainly generated from interest earned from mission bank accounts, refunds received through value–added tax exemption from missions
in accordance with the diplomatic privileges accorded to South Africa by host countries, receipts of previous years expenditure and proceeds on sale of capital items
identified for disposal. During the year under review, the department has collected more revenue than estimated revenue due to value–added tax refunds and forex gain
and revenue received from a deceased’s estate as inheritance from a late Swiss citizen where the South African Government was mentioned as beneficiary of the estate.

14
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Programme expenditure
Programme Name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Administration  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776  1 626 687  1 348 528  278 159
International Relations  3 386 270  3 375 344  10 926  3 354 652  3 275 846  78 806
International Cooperation  559 631  558 139  1 492  493 594  472 256  21 338
Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services  336 822  335 808  1 014  293 839  262 547  31 292
International Transfers  813 424  773 871  39 553  749 100  677 833  71 267
Total  6 784 318  6 707 557  76 761  6 517 872  6 037 010  480 862
The department experienced higher expenditure on compensation of employees (CoE) and goods and services due to depreciation of the Rand against major foreign
currencies.
Low expenditure on transfers and subsidies is primarily attributable to unspent funds earmarked for the South African Development Partnership Agency (SADPA) due to
non–operationalisation of SADPA; membership fees for African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States that were discontinued; as well as a decrease in payments for leave
gratuity and severance packages paid to officials as a result of natural attrition.
Low expenditure on payment for capital assets is primarily attributable to the delay in property maintenance and renovation projects.

15ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
Virements
The department processed the following virements:
 » Compensation of Employees (CoE) in programme 1 to CoE in programme 3,
amounting to R16.8 million to defray excess expenditure due to depreciation
of the Rand against major currencies
 » CoE in programme 4 to CoE in programme 2, amounting to R4.1 million to
defray excess expenditure due to depreciation of the Rand against major
currencies
 » goods and services in programme 1 amounting to R15.3 million and
R3 million to goods and services in programme 3 and programme 4,
respectively in order to defray excess expenditure due to depreciation of
the Rand against major currencies and increased state and official visits
following the relaxation of travel restrictions
 » goods and services in programme 2 amounting to R20 million and
R2.7 million to goods and services in programme 4 and programme 3,
respectively in order to defray excess expenditure due to depreciation of
the Rand against major currencies and increased state and official visits
following the relaxation of travel restrictions and increase in municipality
rates and taxes for diplomatic missions in South Africa
 » goods and services in programme 1 amounting to R2 million to the payment
of financial assets in programme 3 in order to defray excess expenditure on
financial assets on missions’ transactions
 » goods and services in programme 2 amounting to R1.9 million to the payment
of financial assets in programme 3 in order to defray excess expenditure on
financial assets on missions’ transactions
 » transfers and subsidies amounting to R2.4 million in programme 2 to
transfers and subsidies in programme 1 due to the increase in payments for
leave gratuity paid to officials as a result of natural attrition
 » payment of capital assets in programme 1 amounting to R13.1 million and
R26 million to programme 3 and programme 2 respectively for procurement
of capital assets for missions
 » payment of capital assets amounting to R14.5 million from programme 1 to
payment of capital assets in programme 4, in relation to the installation of a
solar system in the guest houses.
Roll overs
The department received approval for the roll–over of funds amounting to
R102 million from the 2021/22 financial year to the 2022/23 financial year relating
to ICT services and repatriation of South African citizens due to COVID–19 travel
restrictions.
Unauthorised expenditure
The department did not incur unauthorised expenditure in the 2022/23 financial
year.
Public–private partnerships
In the 2022/23 reporting year, the department did not enter into a new Public–
Private Partnership Agreement (PPPA). The contract obligations as contained in the
existing PPPA with Imbumba Aganang Private Party (RF) (Pty) Ltd as concluded in
2009 have been adhered to and serviced accordingly.
The relationship with the private party is managed at both strategic and operational
level with penalties being levied for performance below the agreed levels. No
changes or variations have been made to the contract concluded in 2009.
Most scheduled projects were executed as planned. A realignment of projects that
could not be executed was done to ensure that the overall contract performance
is still maintained. The department is in year 13 of implementing the PPPA for
the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) Head Office
building. Monitoring of the contractual obligations is consistently done to maintain

16
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
and keep the building in pristine condition.
The maintenance and replacement of assets are undertaken as per predetermined
replacement cycles. The term of the PPPA is 25 years, ending in 2034. The total
costs incurred in relation to the agreement for the financial year ending 2022/23
are as follows:
DESCRIPTION R’000 2022/23
Management fees, facilities and VAT (indexed components) 264 622
Unitary fees (fixed components) 27 947
Total 292 569
Supply Chain Management (SCM)
There were no unsolicited bid proposals concluded for the year under review. The
department started the financial year with irregular expenditure of over R2 billion.
Efforts were made to procure the services of forensic service providers to render
the investigation service for the incurred irregular expenditure and the report was
implemented where at least R1,2 billion was approved for removal. The department
introduced the following controls and processes to prevent irregular expenditure.
 » The termination of various irregular legacy contracts and advertising of new
bids to replace irregular contracts. This included the appointment of a new
ICT Network Management service provider.
 » The revision of Financial Delegations of Authority and SCM Policy to align
with new National Treasury regulations and prescripts.
 » Enhancing internal controls through compliance checklists that were
implemented for Head Office and missions.
 » Training of SCM officials and bid committees and other departmental officials
who participate in the procurement activities.
The department is still experiencing the following challenges in SCM:
 » various bids could not be finalised based on the lack of availability of
committee members
 » contracts being utilised after expiring in missions.
The department introduced the following measures to attend to challenges
identified:
 » the Delegation of Authority was revised to evaluate high–risk open bids
through committees and conclude quotations through compliance
assessment
 » new committee members were appointed and trained
 » two officials within the contract management unit were appointed after
benchmarking was completed and implemented
 » a contract policy was drafted, approved and distributed to all officials
 » circulars for the termination of irregular contracts were drafted and
distributed.
Monitoring of compliance reports from missions’ procurement and contract
management and gifts and donations received in kind from non–related
parties
Service Provider Nature of Gift in Kind Amount in Kind
Old Mutual Charlotte Maxeke African Women in
Leadership Awards
R300 000
MTN Charlotte Maxeke African Women in
Leadership Awards
R250 000
Vodacom Ubuntu Awards R500 000
Aspen Ubuntu Awards R175 000
Foreign missions Various R2 472 000
Total R3 697 000

17ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
Exemptions and deviations received from National Treasury
None.
Events after the reporting date
 » Non–adjusting event after reporting date: Appointment of Chief Financial
Officer with effect from 1 April 2023.
 » Adjusting event after reporting date: The Supreme Court of Appeal judgment
in favour of DIRCO delivered on 16 June 2023, on the award of the tender
for the appointment of a development partner for the design, construction,
operation, maintenance and financing of sustainable office and residential
accommodation for the South African diplomatic missions in Manhattan,
New York City, New York. The annual financial statements were subsequently
adjusted by R598 606 000 in the contingent liabilities’ disclosure note.
Other
The department renders agency services on behalf of other departments, public
entities and provinces that have staff members stationed abroad or where
the departmental delegations travel abroad for official purposes, including
institutions. In addition, the department also renders agency services on behalf
of the Department of Home Affairs in relation to immigration and civic services
rendered abroad. The department has entered into agreements through signed
memoranda of understanding with the relevant departments, with the purpose
of setting out the administrative arrangements concerning cooperation between
the department and the relevant departments at South African missions, including
advance payments by partner departments.
Acknowledgement/s or appreciation
I would like to acknowledge the support received from the Honourable Minister
and Deputy Ministers of the department. My gratitude and appreciation go to the
Audit Committee members, Risk Management Committee members, the Senior
Management and staff of DIRCO, National Treasury as well as the Office of the
Auditor–General of South Africa.
Conclusion
The department will continue to implement cost–containment measures to realise
savings for the funding of priority projects in line with the MTSF. However, the
department remains vulnerable to foreign exchange vitality, which necessitates
a review of how the foreign operations are supported with regard to financial
instruments that are available for the department to mitigate such in order to
address future unauthorised expenditure that might occur.
Approval and sign off
The annual financial statements set out on the pages below have been
recommended by the Audit Committee members and approved by the
Accounting Officer.
Mr Zane Dangor
Accounting Officer
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Date: 31/08/2023

18
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
5. STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY AND CONFIRMATION OF ACCURACY FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT
To the best of my knowledge and belief, I confirm the following:
 » all information and amounts disclosed throughout the Annual Report are
consistent
 » the Annual Report is complete, accurate and free from any omissions
 » the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Guidelines on
the Annual Report as issued by National Treasury
 » the annual financial statements (Part F) have been prepared in accordance
with the modified cash standard and the relevant frameworks and guidelines
issued by National Treasury
 » the Accounting Officer is responsible for the preparation of the annual
financial statements and for the judgements made in this information
 » the Accounting Officer is responsible for establishing and implementing a
system of internal control that has been designed to provide reasonable
assurance as to the integrity and reliability of the performance information,
the human resources information and the annual financial statements
 » the external auditors are engaged to express an independent opinion on the
annual financial statements.
In my opinion, the Annual Report fairly reflects the operations, performance
information, human resources information and financial affairs of the department
for the financial year ended 31 March 2023.
Yours faithfully
Mr Zane Dangor
Accounting Officer
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Date: 31/08/2023

19ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
6. STRATEGIC OVERVIEW
6.1. Vision
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation’s (DIRCO) vision is
an African continent, which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non–racial, non–
sexist and united and which contributes to a world that is just and equitable.
6.2. Mission
DIRCO’s mission is to formulate, coordinate, implement and manage South Africa’s
foreign policy and international relations programmes, and promote South Africa’s
National Interest and values and the African Renaissance (and create a better world
for all).
6.3. Values
DIRCO adheres to the following values:
 » Patriotism
 » Loyalty
 » Dedication
 » Ubuntu
 » Batho Pele
 » Constitutional Values (Chapter 10).
7. LEGISLATIVE AND OTHER MANDATES
7 .1. Constitutional mandates
The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 is the supreme law of
the Republic and all law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid. The President
is ultimately responsible for South Africa’s foreign policy, and it is the President’s
prerogative to appoint heads of South Africa’s diplomatic missions, receive
foreign heads of diplomatic missions, conduct inter–state relations and enter into
international agreements.
The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation (Minister), in accordance
with her Cabinet portfolio responsibilities, is entrusted with the formulation,
promotion and execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The Minister assumes
overall responsibility for all aspects of South Africa’s international relations in
consultation with the President. In practice, the Minister consults the Cabinet and
individual Cabinet ministers on aspects of importance, as well as on cross–cutting
issues that have a bearing on the programmes of other ministries and departments.
Oversight and accountability in the formulation and conduct of South Africa’s
foreign policy is vested in the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on International
Relations and Cooperation.
7 .2. Legislative mandates
The Foreign States Immunities Act, 1981 (Act 87 of 1981): This Act regulates the
extent of the immunity of foreign states from the jurisdiction of the courts of the
Republic and provides for matters connected therewith.
The Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2001): The Act provides
for the immunities and privileges of diplomatic missions and consular posts and
their members, of heads of states, special envoys and certain representatives of the
United Nations and its specialised agencies, and other international organisations

20
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
and of certain other persons. Provision is also made for immunities and privileges
pertaining to international conferences and meetings. It enacts into law certain
conventions and provides for matters connected therewith.
The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 2001 (Act 51 of
2001): The Act establishes an African Renaissance and International Cooperation
Fund to enhance cooperation between the Republic and other countries, in
particular African countries. This is done through the promotion of democracy,
the promotion of good governance principles, the prevention and resolution of
conflict, socio–economic development and integration, humanitarian assistance
and human resource development.
International agreements (multilateral and bilateral): These include international
agreements concluded by the Republic of South Africa in terms of sections 231(2)
and 231(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996.
7 .3. Policy mandates
The Measures and Guidelines for Enhanced Coordination of South Africa’s International
Engagements and its annexures, approved by Cabinet in 2009, establish more
effective measures and mechanisms to coordinate the conduct of international
relations and the implementation of South Africa’s foreign policy.
The South African Council on International Relations, approved by Cabinet and
established in 2015, provides a consultative platform for engagement of non–state
actors in South Africa’s international relations.
The National Information Security Policy, approved by Cabinet in 1996, provides
the minimum standards for security.
The White Paper on Foreign-policy, approved by Cabinet in 2011, assesses South
Africa’s foreign policy against the rising expectations of the critical role of foreign
policy to meet domestic priorities.
The Foreign Service Dispensation (FSD) is implemented in terms of the provisions
of Section 3(3) (c) of the Public Service Act, 1994 (Act 103 of 1994), as amended, and
is applicable to designated employees who serve in a foreign country at a South
African mission abroad and fall within the scope of the Public Service Coordinating
Bargaining Council. The FSD consists mainly of two measures, namely remunerative
measures (South Africa) and compensatory measures and other foreign–service
benefits at the missions.

21ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GENERAL INFORMATION
8. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Minister
Accounting
Officer
Branch:
Financial
and Asset
Management
Branch:
Americas and
Europe
Branch:
Corporate
Management
Branch:
Global
Governance
and
Continental
Agenda
Branch:
Diplomatic
Training,
Research and
Development
Branch:
Asia and Middle
East
Branch:
Africa
Branch:
Public
Diplomacy
Branch:
State Protocol
and Consular
services
Deputy
Minister 1
Internal
Audit
Office of
the Chief
State Law
Adviser
Deputy
Minister 2
Risk
Management
Office
of the
Chief
Operations
Officer

22
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
9. ENTITIES REPORTING TO THE MINISTER
The table below indicates the entities that report to the Minister.
Name of Entity Legislative Mandate Financial Relationship Nature of Operations
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF)
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund Act, 2000: To enhance
cooperation between the Republic and
other countries, in particular African
countries, through the promotion of
democracy, good governance, the
prevention and resolution of conflict, socio–
economic development and integration,
humanitarian assistance and human
resource development
The ARF receives its funds from the
department through the following:
 » money appropriated by Parliament for
the fund
 » money received by the way of
repayment of any loan made from the
fund
 » interest received on investment of
money standing to the credit of the fund
 » money accruing to the fund from any
other source
Payments and/or disbursements are made
on behalf of the fund by the department
once concurrence is received from the
Minister of Finance
Loans and/or other financial assistance are
granted subject to terms and conditions
as may be agreed upon by that country
and the Minister, acting in each case in
consultation with the Minister of Finance

PART B:
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
23ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

24
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1. AUDITOR–GENERAL’S REPORT: PREDETERMINED
OBJECTIVES
The AGSA currently performs certain audit procedures on the performance
information to provide reasonable assurance in the form of an audit conclusion.
The audit conclusion on the performance against predetermined objectives is
included in the report to management, with material findings being reported under
the Predetermined Objectives heading in the report on other legal and regulatory
requirements section of the auditor’s report.
Refer to pages 264-265 paragraph 17-25, of the Report of the Auditor–General,
published as Part F: Financial Information.
2. OVERVIEW OF DEPARTMENTAL PERFORMANCE
2.1. Service-delivery environment
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) continues to
strengthen its service–delivery strategies that are aligned to the national service–
delivery machinery for effective and efficient delivery of services to the people
of South Africa. This includes the establishment of the Operations Management
Framework to align the departmental strategy to the operations.
DIRCO is constitutionally responsible to provide consular services to South African
nationals in distress abroad. Following the amendment of the Disaster Management
Act of 2002 by the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs,
through the introduction of restrictions on the movement of persons and goods in
the country, as a result of the COVID–19 pandemic, the department activated the
Consular Incident Command Centre (CICC) to assist South African citizens who are
stranded, destitute and experiencing undue hardship across the world. Through
continued assistance to South Africans who are destitute and in distress abroad,
DIRCO, through its Consular Section and missions, provided relief and calm to
many of its citizens abroad during COVID–19.
Diplomatic missions are the coalface of South Africa’s international relations
strategy and have been at the forefront of the COVID–19 crisis response by offering
consular servicesto distressed South African citizens through a myriad of initiatives.
Through the department’s Complaints and Compliment Management Framework
and the Presidential Hotline, the department ensured that complaints and open
cases were speedily handled and resolved within specified timeframes while
adhering to the values and ethos for Service-delivery derived from the Batho Pele
principles.
The branch implemented receipt of documents through courier services for
legalisation and notarial services to the public to avoid walk–ins. The application of
this system was aimed at minimising the spread of COVID–19 infections as part of
the implementation of the health and safety protocols under the various lockdown
levels.
PART B: PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

25ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
2.2. Service–Delivery Improvement Plan
The department has completed a Service–Delivery Improvement Plan. The tables below highlight the service–delivery plan and the achievements to date.
Main services and standards
Main Services Beneficiaries Current/Actual Standard of
Service Desired Standard of Service Actual Achievement
To provide consular notarial
services in respect of South
African official (public) documents
for use abroad
South African citizens and foreign
nationals
Consular notarial services are
provided according to the number
of documents received within four
to five weeks of receipt
The service is demand–driven Number of documents legalised
during the period
1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
(annual) totalled 55 005
Batho Pele arrangements with beneficiaries (Consultation, access, etc)
Current/Actual Arrangements Desired Arrangements Actual Achievements
Consultation: Consultation is done through the following:
 » telephone enquiries
 » written enquiries via e–mail, fax or letters
 » visits by clients to the Legalisation Section
Consultation through structured meetings with
stakeholders on a quarterly basis
Consultations through meetings, as well as telephonically
and electronically, were conducted with stakeholders within
the public and private sector during the 2022/23 financial
year e.g. the South African Qualifications Authority, South
African Police Service, South African Chamber of Commerce
and Industry, Department of Basic Education, Department
of Higher Education and Training, Health Professions
Council of South Africa, Department of Home Affairs,
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development
and key state institutions such as Armscor and Denel, as
well as universities, local and foreign nationals and foreign
embassies in South Africa

26
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Current/Actual Arrangements Desired Arrangements Actual Achievements
Courtesy: Officials are friendly, courteous, highly
professional and knowledgeable in the services provided
Officials are identified by name tags
There is a dedicated fully furnished reception/waiting area
with serving windows available for the clients
Maintain and continue to improve standards through
evaluation and assessment based on previous outcomes
Rope management system to be implemented
Service beneficiaries are provided free parking
Officials are identified by name tags
The public hours are displayed on the main entrance
doors, and the Service–Delivery Charter is displayed in the
Legalisation reception area
Notices/lolly–pop stands are placed in the Legalisation
reception area, indicating to the public where to queue
After consultation between the Legalisation Section and
the IT Division, an in–house database was developed and
implemented with effect from 3 May 2016 (over 80 000
specimen signatures have been captured and uploaded)
Free parking is available for members of the public
Maintained the standards achieved during the 2021/22
reporting period
Access: The service is accessed as follows:
Physical Address: Ground Floor, OR Tambo Building, 460
Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084
Postal address: Private Bag X152, Pretoria, 0001
Legalisation Section is open to the public on weekdays
(except public holidays) from 08:30 to 12:30 (Implemented
with effect from 1 February 2018)
Fax: 012 329–1018
Telephone: 012 351–1232 (Supervisor) or x1269/x1231/
x0595/x0033/x1490/x1268/x1717/x0775/x1146/x9104
Website: www.dirco.gov.za
Implementation of the Departmental Language Policy,
which caters for consular services to be provided in English,
Afrikaans, isiZulu and Sesotho
.
All the mentioned languages can currently be
accommodated

27ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Current/Actual Arrangements Desired Arrangements Actual Achievements
There is a dedicated general enquiries email address:
legalisation@dirco.gov.za.
Courier, registered mail/fast mail and via South African
representatives abroad
Information sheets: Document and version control
as per the Chief Directorate: consular servicesQuality
Management System adhered to, to ensure that customers
are not provided with outdated information
Openness and transparency: Opening hours and
processing times are clearly displayed at the Legalisation
reception and on the DIRCO website
Service beneficiaries are given receipts and customer
satisfaction questionnaires after being assisted
The Service–Delivery Charter is displayed on the DIRCO
website and within the Legalisation waiting area
Maintain and continue to improve on the standards
achieved during 2021/22 through evaluation and
assessment based on the previous outcomes
Customer feedback forms were analysed, and actions taken
to resolve comments on matters of concern from members
of the public
Average suggestions from the public: 10 per quarter
(the main complaints received from the public related to
insufficient directions, parking)
The Consular Service–Delivery Charter is displayed on the
DIRCO website and within the Legalisation waiting area

28
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Service-delivery information tool
Current/Actual Information Tools Desired Information tools Actual Achievements
Information is shared as follows:
 » on the DIRCO and Government Communication and Information System
(GCIS) websites
 » daily telephone and email enquiries
 » daily distribution of information sheets
 » in person to walk–in clients to the Legalisation Section
 » Service–Delivery Charter displayed
 » Ad–hoc meetings held with stakeholders
Legalisation services may be applied for by any of the following means:
 » in person at the Legalisation Section at DIRCO
 » by courier
 » by registered/fast mail
 » via the South African High Commission, Embassy or Consulate General
abroad
The services include the legalisation of South African official (public) documents
for use abroad. Documents that may be legalised include, but are not limited to,
documents pertaining to vital statistics (birth, marriage and death certificates); other
civic documents i.e. letters of no impediment (marital status), citizenship letters/
letters of renunciation and vault copies; police clearance certificates; educational
qualifications; divorce decrees and settlement agreements; documents relating
to adoption; verification of drivers’ licences; registration of companies and close
corporations; registration of patent designs, trademarks and copyrights; health
reports; translated documentation; export documents; and end–user certificates
Clients who do not have the correct documents are directed to the relevant
department/institution to obtain the appropriate documents (information
sheets available to customers)
Document and version control as per the Chief Directorate: Consular Service
Quality Management System, adhered to, to ensure that customers are not
provided with outdated information
Maintain and implement corrective measures
where necessary to improve on the standards
achieved from previous evaluation and
assessment based on the previous outcomes
Information on the DIRCO and GCIS websites
was updated regularly throughout the year
Daily telephone and email enquiries were
addressed
Daily distribution of information sheets was
achieved
Information was provided in person to walk–in
clients to the Legalisation Section
The Consular Service–Delivery Charter is
prominently displayed
Ad–hoc meetings were held with stakeholders to
address matters of concern

29ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Complaints mechanism
Current/Actual Complaints Mechanism Desired Complaints Mechanism Actual Achievements
A formal complaints resolution process was established in compliance with the
Chief Directorate: Consular Service Quality Management System’s requirements.
These processes are as follows:
Legalisation Section: Walk–in customers can provide feedback on their
acknowledgement of receipt forms. The statistical information received is
captured in the daily register. If a poor performance is received, the official who
dealt with the enquiry must provide a written report on the incident, which is
provided to the supervisor. The supervisor then contacts the customer and a
suitable resolution or corrective measures are implemented (where applicable).
All negative comments are reported to management for analysis and action
within one week of lodging the complaint. If the reported complaint involves non–
compliance with the Service–Delivery Charter, the matter is addressed with the
staff member involved
When a counter staff member is unable to handle a difficult situation, the
supervisor will address the situation or complaint directly with walk–in
customers
A suggestion box is also available within the Legalisation Section reception area
for customers to provide suggestions, compliments and complaints. These are
addressed by the supervisor
Align consular processes with the approved
departmental Compliments and Complaints
Management Framework
Compliment and complaint procedures have
been aligned with DIRCO’s Compliments and
Complaints Framework
Complaints received through the in–house
system were analysed and addressed within 24
hours
Feedback is analysed daily, customer complaints
addressed and management provided
with reports on a monthly basis (including
compliments)
Management continues to engage with all
affected stakeholders to improve areas of
concern raised by members of the public

30
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
2.3. Organisational environment
The Director–General assumed duty on 1 April 2022, however, the department had
to operate without a Chief Financial Officer (CFO). An acting CFO was appointed to
ensure the achievement of the department’s objectives and to limit any negative
impact on service delivery. The post of CFO was re–advertised during June 2022
and interviews took place in January 2023. The filling of vacant posts continued to
be affected by the shortfall on the compensation of employees’ (CoE) budget, but
critical vacancies were identified, and 32 posts were advertised during the financial
year.
The pending approval and implementation of the new organisational structure
remain a challenge to the stability of the organisation. The main challenge has been
around affordability of the proposed structure. However, this matter is receiving
due attention by the Office of the Accounting Officer.
Furthermore, previous organisational climate survey recommendations were
implemented with the view to improve the working culture within the organisation.
Changes in the manner in which officials are deployed to missions abroad went a
long way in improving general staff morale.
2.4. Key policy developments and legislative changes
The Foreign Service Act (FSA), 2019 (Act 26 of 2019) was assented to by the
President on 26 May 2020 and published in the Government Gazette on 4 June 2020.
The department is also in the final stages of approval with a new structure that
supports its strategy and plans. In terms of the implementation of the FSA, 2019,
all the steps necessary for the coming into force of the Act were completed and the
Act and the regulations entered into force on 25 August 2022.
The draft text of the regulations was published for public comment in the Government
Gazette on 24 June 2022, after which it was finalised. The implementation process is
under way with the implementation committee finalising the drafting of the policies
and standard operating procedures of the Act.
The implementation of the Act will ensure efficiency in the implementation of the
Foreign Service throughout the country.
3. ACHIEVEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL IMPACTS AND
OUTCOMES
A department committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy,
placing South Africa as an influential actor and partner on the international stage
while effectively contributing to the delivery of the country’s domestic priorities and
advancement of the African Agenda.
Programme 1:
A modern, effective department, with capable and skilled employees, that is
committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy
The Branch: Diplomatic Training, Research and Development (DTRD) contributed
to the development of a professional diplomatic corps by providing various training
programmes to prepare officials for representing South Africa’s National Interest
abroad. In this regard, and through both established and new partnerships, the
branch succeeded in delivering its required training programmes and provided
reports on these collaborations as required. Through the delivery of, among others,
the Diplomatic Training Programme, Mission Administration Course, Foreign
Affairs Attaché Course, Mission Preparation Programmes for heads of mission
and other officials, the academy contributed to the development and upskilling
of DIRCO officials. In addition, the continuous development programmes and
various language training programmes offered and delivered, provided continuous
opportunities to officials to enhance their knowledge and skills set, which in turn
will enable them to represent South Africa’s National Interest abroad.
Furthermore, the branch continues its endeavour to deliver on the building of its
institutional capacity to provide training in African Union/United Nations languages,
despite its human resource constraints. It has also consistently maintained the
International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certificate as part of ensuring

31ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
that the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS) Quality Management Standards
are adhered to. In this regard, the academy received a clean audit during the annual
surveillance audit that was conducted by the SABS on 29 June 2022.
During 2021/22, the department achieved an unqualified audit opinion with
findings and an audit action plan was developed to identify and address the root
causes for material adjustment to financial statements, non–compliance with
supply chain management prescripts and non–implementation of consequence
management on repeat findings. A road map towards a clean audit document was
developed and approved by the Director–General in April 2022 towards raising
awareness on compliance matters to all staff in the department, including those
in foreign missions. Following the distribution of the documents, various training
and awareness circulars on the prevention, detection and reporting of irregular
expenditure and financial delegation of authority were conducted virtually to be
able to reach all transferred officials abroad.
In addition, the department drafted, reviewed and implemented policies and
standard operating procedures, which included new legislation and Treasury
circulars. The approved documentation was distributed to all officials in DIRCO.
Policies:
 » Travel and Subsistence
 » Debtors Management Policy – in process of approval
 » International Medical Claims and Related Expenses Policy – in process of
approval
 » Revenue Management – in process of review.
Standard Operating Procedures:
 » Entertainment (V2)
 » Journal Processing (V3)
 » Management of Rental Deposits and Refunds (V2)
 » Value-Added Tax/General Sales Tax
 » Budget Management
 » Transfer payments.
Programme 2:
Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and social relations to achieve the
objectives of the National Development Plan (NDP) and the Medium Term
Strategic Framework (MTSF) priorities
The strengthening of bilateral relations through structured bilateral mechanisms
lies at the centre of South Africa’s foreign policy. With the easing of COVID 19–
related restrictions, there have been a flurry of activities driven through structured
bilateral mechanisms and high–level engagements, which provided opportunities
for mutually beneficially bilateral cooperation and advancement of South Africa’s
National Interest. South Africa has intentionally rekindled and recalibrated
engagements with several countries on the continent following the devasting
COVID–19 socio–economic disruptions. In the reporting year, South Africa had
engagements at different levels with Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya,
Botswana, Mozambique, Uganda, Seychelles, Burundi, Tanzania, Sahrawi Arab
Democratic Republic, Algeria, Liberia, Zimbabwe, Sierra Leone, Burundi, Seychelles
and Equatorial Guinea.
South Africa and a significant number of Western European countries (Belgium,
Switzerland, Austria, The Netherlands, Portugal and Spain) held structured bilateral
meetings during the 2022/23 reporting period, which is a demonstration of the
importance that these countries attach to their relations with South Africa.

32
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The wide–ranging discussions during the structured bilateral meetings included
collaboration in the fields of climate and energy, science and technology, the
promotion of investment and trade, skills development, protecting our market
share and promoting South Africa as a preferred destination for travellers.
Key high–level engagements in 2022/23 with Canada included:
 » 2 March 2022 – Telecon between President Cyril Ramaphosa and Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau (international peace and security)
 » Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of International Trade, Export
Promotion, Small Business and Economic Development, Mr Arif Virani, from
8 to 12 May 2022 (Participated in the Mining Indaba)
 » 23 May 2022 – Meeting between Deputy Minister Alvin Botes and the Canadian
Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Robert Oliphant
– the meeting discussed trade and investment, multilateral cooperation,
United Nations reform and other global issues of mutual concern.
 » South Africa continued to attract support from Canada for the Economic
Reconstruction and Recovery Plan, as well as South Africa’s developmental
priorities as identified in the NDP, MTSF and the apex priorities set out by
government
 » Canada has aligned its development assistance with the NDP and domestic
priorities, focussing on the strengthening of institutional capacity for South
Africa government entities and gender empowerment based on its Feminists
International Assistance Policy.
Sectoral cooperation with Canada under the umbrella of the Annual Consultations
(AC) is wide–ranging and active and continues to develop in areas of trade and
investment, mining, health, education, science and innovation, environment, arts
and culture and cultural industries. Key deliverables in 2002/23included:
 » The 14th AC (on Director–General level) were rescheduled and took place
on 5 May 2023
 » The proposed Memorandum of Understanding on Health Cooperation was
finalised in March 2023 and is ready for signature.
 » In January 2023, Canada announced its intention to proceed to full
membership of the Square Kilometre Array Observatory.
 » The Fourth Annual Joint Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation
Policy Exchanges was held on 26 January 2023 in Pretoria.
 » The modernised Audio–Visual Co–Production Agreement was finalised in
January 2023 and is ready for signature.
 » University cooperation is wide–ranging and ongoing. A proposal to establish
a Universities Network to bring cooperation under one umbrella was
introduced in 2022.
Increased foreign direct investment and contributed to economic growth in
South Africa
Government actions are often undergirded and sustained by actions of the private
sector and state–owned enterprises. Since the dawn of democracy, South African
companies have established themselves across the length and breadth of the
African continent, engraving their corporate footprints that continue to serve as
South Africa’s identity. The private–sector presence on the continent is a practical
implementation of economic cooperation for mutual bilateral successes. The
branch and missions were actively involved in promoting this area of work as part
of its economic–diplomacy priorities.
The Western Europe countries, Germany, United Kingdom, The Netherlands,
Belgium and Switzerland are among the top five foreign investors in South Africa.
They also count among South Africa’s major trading partners and sources of tourism.
Europe has traditionally been the largest source of development cooperation with
South Africa. These are focussed on addressing poverty, job creation and inequality
and include programmes in addressing energy challenges, particularly green and
renewable energy; water resources; the ocean’s economy; small, medium and
micro enterprise development; agriculture; education; science and technology;

33ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
and mineral beneficiation. The focus of the Chief Directorate will continue with
the consolidation of relations with these countries and to promote partnerships in
support of South Africa’s domestic priorities.
South Africa–United States bilateral relations cover a wide spectrum of issues
aligned to South Africa’s domestic priorities and the NDP such as health (President’s
Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief [PEPFAR]), education, environment, agriculture,
energy, science and technology and safety and security. In the context of the Just
Energy Transition Partnership (JET–P), the US and South Africa have agreed on a
South Africa–led plan to support South Africa’s transition from fossil fuels to a low–
carbon economy, in a manner and at a pace that will address the development
priorities of the country and the concerns of vulnerable communities that will be
impacted by the transition. At the Fourth South Africa Investment Conference in
March 2022, US companies made significant investment pledges, e.g. Ford Motor
Company pledged R16.4 billion to expand the manufacture of the next–generation
Ford Ranger. Netflix and Warner Media also made pledges for film and television
production. There are ongoing talks aimed at renewing the African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) in line with the African Common Position, with South
Africa’s inclusion. There is agreement that a renewed and improved AGOA should
be anchored on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) as a catalyst
for building regional value chains for value–added products and greater market
integration. There is ongoing work with partner departments in preparing for the
hosting of the AGOA Forum by South Africa in 2023, which will map the next phase
of Africa–US trade relations. The US Government and the private sector regard
both the AGOA and the AFCFTA as important platforms to help South Africa and
Africa recover from the COVID–19 pandemic, accelerate regional integration and
industrialisation and to assist with infrastructure and digital transformation.
Progress on South Africa and Canada’s ambition to expand economic cooperation
include:
 » Canada is in the process of developing an engagement strategy for economic
cooperation with Africa.
 » Signs of increased outreach by Canada included a virtual trade mission to
three African countries, including South Africa, in February 2022, and a visit
by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Oliphant
in May 2022, as part of an African tour.
 » During the Fourth South African Investment Conference, held in March 2022,
Canadian mining company, Ivanhoe Mines, pledged R2.8 billion to expand its
Platreef mine in Limpopo.
 » Gender empowerment: Establishment of the SA Organisation of Women in
International Trade (OWIT) Chapter: The OWIT South Africa was formed in
February 2022 with the support of Canada and officially launched in April
2023 after consultations with the Department of Women, Youth and Persons
with Disabilities and women–owned businesses in South Africa.
 » OWIT SA will be working with stakeholders to unpack challenges related to
promoting participation of women–owned businesses in international trade,
including raising awareness about the AfCFTA and its potential impact on the
African economy and global trade.
Increased regional integration
In its MTSF 2019–2024, the Sixth Administration identified policy uncertainty in the
realm of foreign policy as one aspect affecting the country’s ability to influence
and implement agreements and programmes meant to deepen integration and
enhance cooperation, especially in the region and on the continent. In response
to this weakness, DIRCO reviewed the Africa Strategy through a process that
concluded in March 2020. The Revised Africa Strategy identified changes in
geopolitics and the balance of forces on the continent. It essentially concluded that
South Africa’s influence on the continent had been weakened and suggested that
a new approach needed to be implemented.
The endeavour for peace, stability and security, the contribution towards post–
conflict reconstruction and development and contribution to disbursement of
democracy have been major priorities for regional integration and sustainable
development. South African has contributed through bilateral cooperation, the

34
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Southern African Development Community (SADC), African Union (AU) and United
Nations (UN) mandates. South Africa contributed towards the implementation and
implementation of the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP).
Programme 3:
Proponent of strengthening multilateral institutions through consistently
upholding South Africa’s principled positions
South Africa’s foreign policy orientation remains, among others, grounded in the
ideals of Pan–Africanism and a commitment to multilateralism, with the AU at its
core, and, as a fundamental principle, the consolidation of the African Agenda.
For this reason, Africa remains the focal point of South Africa’s foreign policy.
South Africa’s engagement with the AU remains driven and based on the core
mandate and objectives of the union, being to achieve greater unity and solidarity
between the African countries and the peoples of Africa; to promote sustainable
development at the economic, social and cultural levels as well as the integration of
African economies; and to promote peace, security and stability on the continent.
South Africa hosts important organs of the AU, namely the Pan–African Parliament,
the AU Development Agency and the African Peer Review Mechanism, in terms of
the host agreements signed with the AU in this regard.
In a global context, the UN with its near universal membership and vast agenda
remains the most important multilateral institution and the centre of global
governance. Therefore, engagement with the UN and active participation in its
processes, is of vital importance to South Africa and the advancement of its foreign
policy priorities within this multilateral context is critical for issues of concern to
South Africa and the developing South. South Africa’s engagement with the UN
is informed by the realisation that the UN does not reflect current global political
and economic realities. Hence, a key priority in South Africa’s engagement with
the UN is to advance the reform of the existing global governance architecture
with a view to improving its responsiveness to the needs of, and challenges faced
by, developing states. The multilateral environment remains under threat from
unilateralist tendencies and geopolitical tensions, as well as a gradual erosion and
politicisation of multilateral programmes and agenda–setting due to the chronic
shortfalls in the UN’s regular budget and increased reliance on extra budgetary/
earmarked funding.
Consequently, South Africa seeks to influence this environment through active
participation in the system of global governance, at the same time also honouring
all membership obligations. South Africa’s engagement with the UN is based on
its commitment to promote an equitable rules–based multilateral system based
on international law. A key priority in South Africa’s engagement with the UN is
to advance the reform of the existing global governance architecture with a view
to improving the voice and representation of Africa and the developing world,
as well as the responsiveness of the UN system to the needs of and challenges
faced by Africa and developing states. A core pillar of South Africa’s participation
in the UN is centred around promotion of human rights and humanitarianism,
underpinned by the principles, norms, values and standards, which are enshrined
in the Constitution and are given practical expression in various policy documents
(e.g. the NDP) of government. The design, management and conduct of South
Africa’s foreign policy in the field of human rights and humanitarian affairs are
premised: (a) on the commitment made by the people of South Africa (when they
adopted a new Constitution in 1993 [interim Constitution] and 1996 [the “final”
Constitution]) to “build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful
place as a sovereign [and responsible] state in the family of nations” (Preamble to
the 1996 Constitution) and (b) on the foundational values enumerated in section
1(a) of the Constitution, specifically, “human dignity, the achievement of equality
and the advancement of human rights and freedoms”. Another core priority of
South Africa within the UN system is achievement of the sustainable development
agenda. Here, South Africa seeks to negotiate outcomes in multilateral processes
that uphold the guiding principles of the UN 2030 Agenda, including the integrated
and indivisible nature of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and leaving
no one left behind. The focus was on ensuring that ambitious and progressive
multilateral outcomes, such as on addressing climate change and the loss of
biological diversity, are matched with enabling means of implementation support
for developing countries and informed by equity, national circumstances and

35ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
differentiation to ensure that the right to development and development space of
African and other developing countries is respected.
United and politically cohesive continent that works towards shared
prosperity and sustainable development
South Africa played a leadership role in the AU and its structures, such as the
Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change
(CAHOSCC) and the African Ministerial Conference on the Environment (AMCEN),
in developing and advancing African common positions on climate change and
environmental issues, including in the context of the recovery from the impacts of
the COVID–19 pandemic.
South Africa continued to consolidate its leading role on the continent as well as
in the international arena on global initiatives to mitigate the COVID–19 pandemic
i.e., President Cyril Ramaphosa’s appointment as permanent Co–Chair alongside
the Prime Minister of Norway of the High–level Facilitation Council on the Access to
COVID–19 Tools Accelerator (ACT–A) by the World Health Organisation (WHO); in
addition to his role as the AU’s COVID–19 Champion.
South Africa contributed to strengthening coordination of national stakeholder
engagement on social development matters to optimally promote and advocate
for social development issues to remain on the international agenda in pursuit
of South Africa’s foreign policy objectives in relation to AU’s Agenda 2063 and UN
2030 Agenda.
South Africa participated in the meetings of the Kimberly Process (KP), which is
an internationally recognised process to prevent trade in illegal diamonds. South
Africa has maintained its position in preserving the integrity and scope of the KP
and focussed on issues affecting the African region. South Africa was commended
following its report on the review visit it led to Zimbabwe, which was hailed to be
historic in terms of the work conducted and its timeliness.
South–South relations strengthened and consolidated in advancement of
national and continental priorities
South Africa participates in all high–level meetings of the Non–Aligned Movement
(NAM), which it views as a key international obligation. South Africa remains
committed to the guiding principles of the NAM, supports consensus–building
in developing the positions of the NAM and prioritises close South–South
cooperation as a crucial element to countering the international marginalisation
of the developing world. South Africa will continue to utilise its membership of the
movement to further the African Agenda; strengthen South–South cooperation;
promote dialogue to achieve sustainable international peace and security; promote
multilateralism and the Bandung principles; and advocate for the strengthening of
rules–based global governance systems, the reform of the UN and its organs and
support the fight of the Palestinian people for self–determination, freedom and
justice.
The NAM has played a crucial and highly visible political role in representing the
interests of developing countries, particularly in the eradication of colonialism,
supporting struggles for liberation and self–determination, the pursuit of world
peace and the search for a more equitable and just global order.
South Africa actively participates in all NAM working groups and committees
and is also a member of the NAM Ministerial Committee on Palestine, which was
established under India’s Chairship during the Seventh NAM Summit in New Delhi
in 1983. As a member of the committee, South Africa remains an active supporter
of the NAM’s traditional and long–standing solidarity with Palestine. South Africa
supports all initiatives of the movement aimed at the realisation of the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to return to their homeland.
South Africa also participates in the NAM Working Group on Disarmament,
which promotes a multilateral approach to disarmament, non–proliferation and
arms control on the grounds that solutions based on the commitment of the
international community as a whole, are the most viable and sustainable methods
of limiting, preventing and eliminating the threats posed by the proliferation of
both conventional arms and weapons of mass destruction.

36
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
In 2024, South Africa will participate in the 19th Summit of the Heads of State
and Government of NAM that will be held in Kampala, Uganda, from 15 to 20
January 2024. The summit will be preceded by a NAM Ministers Meeting and a
NAM Committee on Palestine Meeting. During the meeting, Azerbaijan will hand
over the Chairship to Uganda. The NAM Summit is the highest decision–making
authority where members deliberate on the future of the movement. During the
summit, the movement will formally rotate its Chair to the Head of State of the host
country of the summit, who then holds office until the next summit. Azerbaijan has
been the Chair since 2019 and will hand over the position to Uganda for the next
three years.
The Virtual Coordination Meeting for the Outcome Implementation of the Eighth
Ministerial Conference of Forum on China–Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) was held on
18 August 2022. South Africa was represented at the meeting by Deputy Minister
Candith Mashego–Dlamini, on behalf Minister Naledi Pandor. The meeting focussed
on China and Africa working together to fully implement the “Nine Programmes”
and advance high–quality Belt and Road cooperation. In this regard, China will
upgrade the South–South Cooperation Assistance Fund to a Global Development
and South–South Cooperation Fund and further replenish the fund. China wishes to
work with Africa to jointly implement the Global Security Initiative and will increase
its input to the UN Peace and Development Trust Fund and help improve the UN
operations for stability and peace in Africa. During the meeting, Deputy Minister
Mashego–Dlamini highlighted that China and Africa had been fully engaged and
committed to the implementation of follow–up actions to make a good start and
gain early harvests of the Nine Programmes. These include the “green channel” for
African agricultural export products to China, which is reported as operating very
well, as well as the setting up of the first batch of four China–Africa joint centres
for modern agro–technology exchange, demonstration and training. South Africa
has noted the strong growth in China–Africa trade and investment. China–Africa
relations are aimed at addressing the challenges that impede the development
progress on the continent and South Africa will continue to closely monitor and
politically influence these relations.
Relations with the North leveraged in advancement of national and
continental priorities
South Africa will actively participate in the work of the Commonwealth and attend
all high–level meetings, including the Commonwealth Foreign Affairs Ministers
Meeting and the biannual Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. South
Africa supports the reform of the Commonwealth to focus on priority areas, which
will add value as well as strengthen the organisation and raise the profile of the
Commonwealth. In view of the current financial environment, South Africa supports
the cost–cutting measures implemented at the Commonwealth Secretariat and
will work towards more effective and efficient delivery of the objectives of the
Commonwealth as set out in the new Strategic Plan, in line with the Commonwealth
Charter, the mandates of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting
(CHOGM) and the UN SDGs. South Africa will utilise its position as a leading
advocate within the Commonwealth to continue to promote the African Agenda,
the interests of developing member states and to monitor the implementation of
the mandates given to the Commonwealth Secretariat at Commonwealth Heads
of Government Meetings (CHOGMs). The next CHOGM will be held in Samoa in
October 2024. A Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) and Committee of the Whole (CoW)
will be held in London from 2 to 4 July 2024 to prepare for CHOGM 2024.
Commonwealth priorities include:
 » South Africa believes that the Commonwealth continues to play an important
role in a world where there is increasing pushback against the forces
promoting collective action and international solidarity and cooperation.
 » The organisation, which represents countries from across the development
spectrum, should use its unique position to continue calling for the
strengthening of existing multilateral mechanisms and institutions and
transform them to suit current global realities.

37ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
 » The Commonwealth provides an opportunity to address issues of common
interest, including implementation of development goals and the reform of
constitutions of global governance, in particular the International Monetary
Fund, World Bank and the UN.
 » The Commonwealth is also at the forefront of the struggle for the
advancement and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
gender equality and women empowerment.
The Second United States (US)–African Leaders Summit was held in Washington
DC, US, from 13 to 15 December 2022. South Africa was represented by Minister
Pandor. The summit can be contextualised against the background of the recent
launch of the US Strategy Toward Sub–Saharan Africa, as well as the US National
Security Strategy. These strategies are clearly aimed at resetting US relations with
its African counterparts and to advance the US’ strategic objectives. The purpose
of the summit was to demonstrate the US’ enduring commitment to Africa and
underscores the importance of US–Africa relations and increased cooperation on
shared global priorities. The summit was rooted in the recognition that Africa is a
key geopolitical player – one that is shaping the present and will shape the future.
Over the course of the three–day summit, the US Administration announced
several new initiatives to grow two–way trade and investment, bolster African
health systems, engage the Diaspora and foster technological innovation in
African countries. A wide range of new investments of at least US$55 billion and
projects will require a significant effort to operationalise the new programmes.
South Africa will need to capitalise on the various pledges made and develop
strategies of engagement with the US agencies. The US Sub–Saharan Africa
Strategy is an important document that should allow DIRCO to extrapolate plausible
projects that can be presented to the US agencies for collaboration and possible
investments at national, regional and continental level.
The Eighth Tokyo International Conference of African Development (TICAD)
Summit was held from 27 to 28 August 2022, in Tunis, Tunisia, co–organised by the
Government of Japan with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
the World Bank and the AU Commission (AUC). The summit, attended by Minister
Pandor, provided an opportunity to highlight the close connection between Japan
and Africa, as well as set out a pathway for African development looking ahead to
the post–pandemic era. The key measures to realise further development in Africa
were announced by the Prime Minister of Japan, Fumio Kishida:
 » US$30 billion as the sum of public and private financial contributions
focussing on investment in people over the next three years
 » US$4 billion for the “Japan’s Green Growth Initiative with Africa” to improve
the quality of people’s lives
 » over 10 billion Japanese Yen for the “investment fund for start–ups” to
support the entrepreneurship of energetic young people
 »  human resource development of 300 000 professionals
 » US$5 billion will be provided through cooperation with the African
Development Bank for the comprehensive development of the private sector
 » US$1.08 billion for the Global Fund for tackling infectious diseases over the
next three years
 » US$130 million for food assistance to build resilient and sustainable societies,
aimed at defending people’s lives as they face rising food and energy prices
 » US$300 million loan co–financing for the African Emergency Food Production
Facility of the African Development Bank
 » assisting with capacity–building for 200 000 people in the agriculture sector
 » a US$1 billion new special loan for the purpose of advancing reforms that
result in sound debt management.
The Eighth TICAD Business Forum also provided an opportunity for African and
Japanese companies to further consolidate economic cooperation within the
TICAD Framework. A key element, and success story of the TICAD partnership,
continues to be the strong support of the Japanese private sector (closely backed
by the Japanese Government) in meeting the objectives of the African Development
Agenda.

38
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
South Africa worked across the North–South divide, which characterises multilateral
negotiations to forge partnerships and advance shared interests with developed
country partners, including in the G7 as guests in 2022 and in the G20. South
Africa supported the establishment of and contribution to the Pandemic Fund at
the World Bank as one of a dedicated additional stream of funding for Pandemic
Prevention Preparedness and Response, especially for developing countries.
South Africa attended the World Economic Forum (WEF) and met international
influential leaders and opinion makers in various fields and influenced their positive
disposition towards investing in South Africa while also familiarising itself with the
latest technological trends that could assist in positioning the country as one of the
leading economies.
In the context of the UN Commission on Social Development, South Africa, through
the South African Permanent Representation in New York continued, as we do
annually, to coordinate the work on the resolution on the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development on behalf of the G77 + China and actively participated in the
activities of the group during the Commission on Population Development.
South Africa participated in the G20 Summit under the Presidency of Indonesia in
2022. South Africa, through the support of some European Union (EU) countries,
successfully ensured the G20 leaders’ continued commitment to key developmental
priorities for Africa, including among others:
 » a commitment by the G20 to fight poverty and inequality
 » support for Africa in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda
 » continued support for the G20 Partnership with Africa, including the Compact
with Africa
 » the G20 initiative on industrialisation in Africa
 » continued focus on illicit financial flows (IFFs)
 » the important endorsement of the G20 Support to COVID–19 Response
and Recovery in Developing Countries, especially Africa and small island
developing states and the Financing for Sustainable Development Framework.
Western European countries understand South Africa’s positions on key global
issues in the UNSC and the broader UN Global Agenda, sharing similar views on,
for example, human rights, gender equality, eradicating poverty and reducing
inequality.
Programme 4:
Domestic and foreign audiences informed on South Africa’s foreign policy
objectives and priorities
The approved Public Diplomacy (PD) Strategy addresses the need for the
implementation and management of South Africa’s reputation through the
utilisation of people–to–people initiatives and new media platforms. The strategy
uses a three–pronged approach and aims to set the agenda, create and strengthen
own platforms and promote the South African Brand and DIRCO to stakeholders.
This is achieved through targeted platforms that promote the National Interest of
our country through understanding, informing and influencing foreign and local
audiences. To enhance implementation of this strategy and intergovernmental
relations, the Branch: PD forms part of government’s International Cooperation,
Trade and Security Cluster in which it plays an important role in enabling the cluster
to communicate with one voice.
The department continued to enhance public understanding of South Africa’s
foreign policy engagements by both local and international audiences. Political
principals utilise various platforms such as media briefings and public participation
programmes to reach out to the public at home and abroad and stimulate debates
through dialogue and public lectures on various topical issues in the purview of
international relations.

39ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Improved compliance with the diplomatic regulatory framework
In terms of the Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2002),
DIRCO is tasked with regulating the Diplomatic Corps, numbering in excess of
10 000 and has successfully implemented an above average business processing
turn–around time for all its related services. The department is currently facing
ongoing challenges relating to the abuse of privileges, as well as attending to
audits of the functions pertaining to the Diplomatic Corps. Several foreign missions
were identified, whose diplomatic and consular agents had abused the privileges
accorded to them for personal gain.
During the year under review, DIRCO continued to provide consular assistance
to South Africans abroad. A total number of 822 consular cases were attended
to. These included extraditions, prisoners abroad, return of mortal remains and
service of process, to cite a few.
4. INSTITUTIONAL PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE
INFORMATION
4.1. Programme 1: Administration
Purpose: Provide strategic leadership, management and support services to
the department
Subprogramme 1.1: Ministry
Purpose: Provide political leadership
Subprogramme 1.2: Departmental Management
Purpose: Provide strategic and administrative support to the department
Subprogramme 1.3: Audit Services
Purpose: Monitor the development and implementation of effective and efficient
internal control systems
Subprogramme 1.4: Financial Management
Purpose: Provide financial management services
Subprogramme 1.5: Corporate Services
Purpose: Provide effective, efficient and economical support services to the
department
Subprogramme 1.6: Diplomatic Training, Research and Development (DTRD)
Purpose: Provide diplomatic training, facilitate the provision of functional training in
the department and conduct research
Subprogramme 1.7: Foreign Fixed Assets Management
Purpose: Provide and manage the State’s fixed assets foreign portfolio
Subprogramme 1.8: Office Accommodation
Purpose: Manage the local property portfolio
Outcome: A modern, effective department, with capable and skilled employees,
which is committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy
The strategic objective of Corporate Management is to implement effective human–
resource management to ensure that adequate and sufficient skilled resources are
in place and that performance is monitored as well as to provide an integrated ICT
system that enables delivery of the department’s mandate.

40
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
During the reporting period, the department had a vacancy rate of 18,7%, which
is above the national average Public Service vacancy rate of 10%. The vacancy
rate increased from the previous financial year (16%), as only 32 critical posts
could be advertised, in an attempt to reduce the shortfall on the Compensation
of Employees’ budget. The critical advertised posts included the posts of Deputy
Director–General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda, as well as Chief
Financial Officer.
A report on submission of performance agreements by all eligible DIRCO Senior
Management Service (SMS) members was prepared and submitted. The department
further ensured that performance was effectively monitored through conducting
performance assessments for all eligible employees, including SMS members.
The department did not enrol any new interns during the 2022/23 financial year
owing to financial constraints. Efforts were made to secure sponsorships for the
implementation of future internship and learnership programmes. The Public
Service Sector Education and Training Authority (PSETA) has offered the department
a discretionary grant to implement a learnership programme for unemployed
youth in the 2023/24 financial year.
Forty–five training programmes were implemented in line with the 2022/23
Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) of the department, exceeding the annual target of 20
training programmes that was set. The 25 additional training programmes were
implemented due to critical training requests that were received, approved and
implemented. Thirty bursary applications were received and processed according
to DIRCO policy.
During this reporting period, 24 grievances were lodged, 17 resolved, two remained
unresolved and five were prematurely lodged and referred to the business units
for intervention. The reported misconduct cases that required investigation were
processed timeously. Some of the investigations and disciplinary hearings were
facilitated virtually, though it was time consuming. Most of the disciplinary hearings
were convened face to face to ensure prompt facilitation, resolution and closure.
In a few disciplinary cases, the hearings had to be postponed numerous times due
to the unavailability of panel members. There was an increase in the finalisation
of disputes during the period under review. There was an unusual increase in
reported abscondment cases, which led to an increase in disputes in this category.

41ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Employee Health and Wellness
Figure 1: Statistics on presenting problems
33
26
8
3
7
3
10
90
209
37
21
5
2
12
10
22
109
240
16
23
0
0
1
11
14
65
165
35
24
2
4
9
9
12
95
197
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Work-related
Family/personal
relationships
Financial
Substance
abuse
Health, including
HIV/TB
Depression,
anxiety, stress,
other mental
problems
Bereavement/
trauma
PROBLEM
CATEGORIES
(CASES) TOTAL
TOTAL NUMBER
OF SESSIONS
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS STATISTICS (Q1-Q4 2022/2023)
PRESENTING PROBLEM
Quarter 1
Quarter 2
Quarter 3
Quarter 4
Psychosocial support was rendered to 359 employees and their families. This resulted in a total of 811 counselling sessions. The main presenting problems were work–
related.

42
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Random courtesy calls were made to transferred officials in missions to assess how
they were coping during posting, and to provide the necessary support. Courtesy
calls were also extended to transferred officials in Syria and Turkey, following the
devastating earthquakes.
Wellness Days events were held at Head Office (OR Tambo Building) and the OR
Tambo International Airport State Protocol Lounge (SPL). A total of 1 176 employees
were screened for non–communicable diseases (hypertension, diabetes, obesity
and cholesterol) and tuberculosis (TB). Some of these screenings were conducted
at the DIRCO on–site clinic. The department supported various sporting codes
during the reporting period. Additionally, the department organised the Move for
Health Day and encouraged all employees at Head Office to participate in physical
health activities.
HIV/AIDS and TB awareness took place during the Candlelight Memorial and World
AIDS days. A total of 109 employees participated in voluntary HIV counselling and
testing. A total of 1 411 officials were screened for TB, mainly through the on–site
clinic.
Twenty educational sessions were conducted. These included mental health–
promotion topics such as bipolar mood disorder, suicide prevention, mental health
during the festive period and self–injury. Other psycho–educational sessions
focussed on financial wellness, debt–relief measures, stress management, conflict
management and pre–posting preparations. In addition, electronic articles on
various health topics were circulated. Flu vaccines were provided to 112 employees
by the on–site clinic.
Finance and Asset Management
Compliance with the 30–day payment period of service providers has improved
significantly, averaging 93.13% for the period under review in comparison with the
previous period of 67.72%, since the consolidation of the cellular phone account
invoices. The remaining non–compliance with 30 days is mainly due to delays by the
end–users or business units to sign invoices, confirming if services were rendered.
There were no unsolicited bid proposals concluded for the year under review.
The department started the financial year with irregular expenditure of over
R2 billion. Efforts were made to procure the service of forensic service providers
to render the investigation service for the incurred irregular expenditure and the
report was implemented where at least R1,2 billion was approved for removal. The
department introduced the following controls and processes to prevent irregular
expenditure:
 » terminating various irregular legacy contracts and advertising of new bids to
replace irregular contracts, including the appointment of a new ICT network
management service provider.
 » revising the financial delegations of authority and the SCM Policy to align with
new Treasury regulations and prescripts
 » enhancing internal controls through compliance checklists that were
implemented for Head Office and missions
 » training of SCM officials, bid committee members and other departmental
officials who participate in procurement activities.
The department is still experiencing the following challenges in SCM:
 » various bids could not be finalised based on the lack of availability of bid
committee members
 » missions using contracts after expiring.

43ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
The department introduced the following measures to attend to challenges
identified:
 » delegations of authority were revised to evaluate high–risk open bids through
committees and conclude quotations through compliance assessment
 » new committee members were appointed and trained
 » two officials within the Contract Management Unit were appointed after
benchmarking was completed and implemented
 » the Contract Policy was drafted, approved and distributed to all officials
 » circulars for the termination of irregular contracts were drafted and
distributed
 » monitoring compliance reports from missions’ procurement and contract
management.
The department is currently implementing several infrastructure projects as
interventions to address the maintenance backlog and to ensure that the condition
of the state–owned property portfolio is sustainable and supports Service-delivery
by missions abroad. The department prioritised the planning of the construction
of facilities in three missions: New Delhi (India), Luanda (Angola) and Gaborone
(Botswana). In the 2022/23 financial year, the department collaborated with the
Government Technical Advisory Centre as an implementing agent to support the
execution of capital projects abroad.
To address the maintenance backlog, the department prioritised seven renovation
projects in the following missions: Mbabane, Copenhagen, Vienna, Rome, Canada,
Kinshasa and Namibia. The condition assessment was done in the previous
financial year and the outcome informed the renovation work currently underway.
Renovation projects were completed in Windhoek, Vienna, Ottawa and Kinshasa.
Thirty–three minor maintenance projects were completed at the end of the
2022/23 financial year to address the maintenance backlog. Twelve projects have
been carried over to the 2023/24 financial year as they were implemented late in
the financial year. To address the maintenance challenges, condition assessments
have been commissioned for 17 missions; reports have been received for six
missions; and 11 missions are in the process of conducting condition assessments,
which will inform the prioritisation projects for renovation and maintenance work
in the 2023/24 financial year.
The department has commenced with the disposal process of 18 superfluous
properties; 12 properties in Namibia, Bonn, Zurich, Funchal and Malawi have been
advertised; and bids have been evaluated and the proposals will be considered by
the department in the first quarter of 2023. The valuation report for Milan has been
received. The advertisement for Banjul is in progress. The valuation of the property
in Montevideo will be finalised in June 2023.
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development (DTRD)
Operating in a fast–changing world, it is imperative for the Branch: DTRD to remain
agile in its response to the dynamics that affect the operational environment of
our diplomats. The Foreign Service Act, 2019 mandates the Diplomatic Academy to
provide training to all members of the South African Foreign Service, as part of a
strategy to continue the professionalisation of its diplomatic service.
The Diplomatic Academy strives to improve and strengthen a learning culture
within DIRCO, by constantly offering programmes and workshops to refresh and
upskill competencies. Despite its resource challenges, the branch has intensified its
digitisation process with the assistance of ICT to ensure that all programmes, both
residential and continuous professional development, are offered. To this end,
a combined learning approach is utilised, which has thus far produced tangible
results. The increased use of digital technology permits the Diplomatic Academy
to increase its reach to missions and other relevant departments/institutions,
providing an opportunity to interested stakeholders to continue benefitting from
the programmes offered. The implementation of this learning approach adheres
to the PSETA standards and ISO certification. In addition, the academy continues
to explore and strengthen partnerships and collaborations with other reputable

44
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
experts, academic institutions, government departments and think tanks to
continue to deliver on its mandate of training officials to be posted abroad.
Another development that contributed positively to the working environment of
the academy is the continued improvement of the training rooms. New technology
and connectivity were improved, assisting trainers to utilise technology to improve
the learning experience. Further improvements and connectivity (Wi–Fi) and the
instalment of effective IT equipment will assist the academy to further increase its
abilities. The DTRD has also begun developing on–demand online training-modules
that officials will be able to access to upskill and empower themselves in various
subjects. Initial programmes will be launched during the 2023–2024 training
calendar.
Although the initial non–availability of tools of trade and procurement of data for
both trainers and trainees had a negative impact on the commencement of the
delivery of accredited residential programmes (Mission Administration Course
[MAC], Foreign Attaché Administration Course [FAAC] and Diplomatic Training), the
academy concluded the Diplomatic Training Programme for line–function officials
during the reporting period, allowing participants to become eligible for placement
abroad. The academy has also been able to ease the backlog of officials who have
been waiting to successfully complete the pre–course assessments for the FAAC.
During the reporting period, a larger number than usual officials (50) were trained,
which also contributed to the easing of the backlog of officials waiting to be trained.
While addressing the backlog remains a short– to medium–term challenge, the
academy remains committed to provide training that is fit–for–purpose.
Economic diplomacy continued to be a central focus of the branch and is an
important module of all residential programmes (Diplomatic Training, MAC and
FAAC). It is also part of the continuous development programmes offered where
topical issues such as the promotion of tourism and market analysis to improve
exports are discussed. DTRD supported departmental structures through training
programmes empowering officials’ understanding of the Presidential Investment
Conference process, as well as Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Programme,
especially DIRCO’s responsibilities under this programme. Various aspects of the
African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) were also focussed on during the
training programmes that were offered in cooperation with the Department of
Trade, Industry and Competition. Through a partnership with the National Board
of Trade of Sweden, the academy also provided a tailor–made training programme
on “Trade Policy and Trade Promotion” that provides particular insights into the
Swedish and European markets.
The Mediation Support Unit (MSU), through the Diplomatic Academy, delivered two
capacity–building programmes on Mediation, Negotiation and Conflict Resolution
for South African men and women, as well as international women. The purpose
of these programmes is to increase South Africa’s and the continent’s pool of
mediators and women peacebuilders for possible deployment.
In the period under review, the Directorate: MSU delivered the Gertrude Shope
Annual Dialogue Forum on Women, Peace and Security on 8 March 2023, under
the theme: The Current State of Global Peace and Security Architecture: Utilisation of
Existing Capacity by Peace Institutions . The hybrid meeting (online and in person)
allowed for a broader reach of panellists and participants, with three panels that
focussed on:
 » Global Solidarity and Accountability
 » Global Dynamics and Investing in Institutions of Peace – The Role of Women
Mediation Networks
 » Utilisation of Women Peacemakers – Capacity–Building Programmes and the
Way Forward.
More than 150 people participated, which highlighted, among others, the need
to strengthen women’s mediation networks to collectively address the challenges
women experience in contributing to the global peace architecture.
The DIRCO Library and Knowledge and Information Management, which also forms
part of the MSU, served as a source of information through sites such as Stratfor
and Oxford Analytica, which benefitted Head Office and Mission personnel alike.

45ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
As much as the academy is trying to improve the learning culture within the
department, budget constraints have reduced the ability of the academy to
support DIRCO officials who wish to participate in international training offers from
other foreign ministries. Such offers, which generally cover all expenses, provide
opportunities for officials to learn from best practices and expose them to different
cultural experiences.
The academy has also increased its outreach and interaction with other diplomatic
academies with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on increased
cooperation with The Philippines, with other countries in Latin America, Asia and
the Middle East also approaching the academy to concretise relations.
The Language Directorate, despite being under-resourced (skilled in–house)
practitioners, was able to provide the following foreign language programmes:
 » French (five classes)
 » Spanish (two classes)
 » Portuguese (two classes)
 » Mandarin (one class)
 » Swahili (one class).
The total number of DIRCO officials who successfully completed the respective
courses was 55 and 45 officials from other government departments and state
entities successfully completed the respective courses. Five English programmes
and workshops for diplomatic purposes were conducted for DIRCO officials at
Head Office and at the missions, with a total of 28 officials successfully completing
the respective programmes/workshops.
The Language Directorate continued to render translation and interpreting services
to DIRCO (Head Office and missions) and The Presidency. Only French services
were provided, as other foreign language practitioner posts (Spanish – retired and
Portuguese – transferred abroad) have not been filled. All services, apart from
French, needed to be outsourced, which came with its own set of challenges,
namely supply chain time processes, budget, experience in the field and vetting.
Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
The Office of the Chief State Law Adviser (International Law) (OCSLA) (IL) continues
to act as the primary legal counsel on all international law matters for the
Government as a whole. One of South Africa’s primary foreign policy objectives is
to enhance rules–based international order by contributing to the formulation of
international law and enhancing respect for its provisions. International law today
forms an integral part of modern diplomatic architecture. Over the past decades,
international law has moved away from its traditional premise of regulating
relations between sovereign states towards a more extensive “constitutional”
framework for international society, aimed at improving the human condition.
Consequently, the fields of regulation, the number of international institutions,
including judicial organs, and legal instruments have proliferated. The fields in which
OCSLA provides expert legal advice and negotiations skills include Law of Treaties,
the Law of the Sea, Extradition, Diplomatic Law and Diplomatic Immunities and
Privileges, International Environmental Law, Air and Space Law, the Use of Force,
Peacekeeping, International Humanitarian Law, Human Rights, and International
Criminal Law.
OCSLA (IL) provides legal advice and policy guidance in respect of all DIRCO
programmes. In the area of Consolidation of the African Agenda, the continent’s
multilateral systems and institutions have been overhauled. Organisations like
the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the African Union (AU)
are not only established in terms of legal instruments, but the new cooperation
and integration regimes of these institutions are also based on international
law principles. The focus now is on greater integration through the subregional
and regional Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement. This integration will have
to be supported by a magnitude of legal instruments that will provide for the
implementation thereof. The strengthening of South–South and North–South
cooperation in the economic and political fields, as well as bilateral cooperation
between states are based on the negotiation and implementation of international
legal instruments. In the area of Participation in the Global System of Governance,
the formulation and codification of international law that takes place, among others,
in the work of the International Law Commission, the Sixth (Legal) Committee of
the United Nations General Assembly and in the Asian African Legal Consultative
Committee, will continue to play an important role.

46
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
In addition, OCSLA (IL) provides legal advice and policy guidance to the department
and its missions abroad on issues pertaining to domestic law (e.g. labour law,
contract law, law of delict, etc.) and manages all litigation which DIRCO is involved
in, both in South African courts and in foreign jurisdictions. The increase in litigation
against the department and government is of concern as it has serious cost
implications for the budget of the department.
The Foreign Service Act, 2019 (Act 26 of 2019) entered into force on 25 August
2022, following a proclamation in the Government Gazette by the President on 24
August 2022. Section 3 of the Foreign Service Act, 2019 mandates the department
to, among others, act as the custodian of the international agreements to which
the Republic is a party as well as of the national reports submitted in accordance
with international obligations and to render advice to government on all matters
related to international law. Therefore, the maintenance and administration of a
complete and up–to–date record of the treaty collection of the Republic remains a
priority and the South African Treaty Section will continue to render a professional
information service.
Challenges faced by OCSLA (IL) include, among others, staff shortages and to
ensure that sufficient expertise in specialised fields of international law is and
remains available in order to fulfil its mandate, and to enhance information–sharing
between departments and officials responsible for various specialised technical
areas and/or organisational bodies in various areas.
OCSLA (IL) will continue to inform government departments on the prescribed
constitutional procedures for conclusion and entry into force of international
agreements and to build expertise in this respect in government. It will implement
measures to enhance and maintain the completeness of the South African Treaty
Register, as well as public access to it. It will furthermore continue to provide
support to South African multilateral missions, especially Addis Ababa, New York,
Geneva, The Hague, Vienna and Brussels, and to advise on the legal status and
operation of the offices of international organisations based in South Africa.
Highlights of international law matters
The Hague Conference on Private International Law (HCCH)
OCSLA (IL), in cooperation with the University of Pretoria, the HCCH and the
Finnish Government, organised a Regional Conference for SADC States on Private
International Law at the university from 7 to 8 February 2023. The conference
illustrated the benefits for SADC states to become party to the HCCH conventions,
especially in the field of family law and the cross–border enforcement of judgments,
as this will enhance cooperation between SADC states in these fields, improving
both bilateral cooperation and regional integration in line with South African foreign
policy objectives.
International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
OCSLA (IL) was instrumental in managing a process that resulted in the President
approving that an interdepartmental Operational Task Team, led by the South
African Police Service, be established to investigate the whereabouts of a Rwandan
national suspected of having committed war crimes, crimes against humanity
and war crimes during the 1994 Rwandan genocide. This followed a request for
cooperation by the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals,
which has jurisdiction over these crimes, for the location and surrender of the
fugitive who was in South Africa but has since disappeared. South Africa is under
an obligation in terms of international law to cooperate with the tribunal, which
was established by the United Nations Security Council acting under its Chapter
VII mandate. This cooperation gives effect to South Africa’s primary foreign policy
objective to enhance a rules–based international order.
Agreement between South Africa and the United States of America (US) for
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy
Law advisers of OCSLA (IL) serve on an interdepartmental negotiating team led by
the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy to negotiate a new agreement
between South Africa and the US for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which
will provide the legal basis for trade between the two states in commercial nuclear
products, enhancing the foreign policy objective of contributing to the economic
development of South Africa.

47ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Actual Audited
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
A modern,
effective
department,
with capable
and skilled
employees,
which is
committed to
the excellent
execution of
South Africa’s
foreign policy
Improved
organisational
functioning
through an
enhanced digital
environment
Number of
progress
reports on the
implementation
of the digital
strategy
Digital strategy
adopted
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
submitted
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
submitted
Unqualified audit
opinion
Number of
progress reports
on the Audit
Action Plan
Qualified audit
opinion
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action Plan
submitted
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action Plan
submitted
Improved
organisational
function through
generic skills
development
programme
implementation
Number
of reports
on training
programmes
conducted in line
with Generic Skills
Development
Programme
New indicator Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted in line
with Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted in line
with Generic Skills
Development
Programme
compiled
Position the
Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
Number
of reports
on aspects
implemented
towards
positioning
the Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
ISO–certified
quality
management
system
maintained
ISO–certified
quality
management
system
maintained
Maintain ISO–
certified quality
management
system
ISO–certified
quality
management
system
maintained

48
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Actual Audited
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
Gap analysis
conducted and
implementation
plan on building
institutional
capacity to deliver
the African
Union (AU)/
United Nations
(UN) languages
developed
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
submitted
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/UN
languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
submitted
Framework
for building
partnerships
and networks
developed
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes
of the academy
submitted
Two progress
reports on
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes
of the academy
submitted
Gender
mainstreaming
by focussing on
women, youth
and persons with
disabilities
Number
of gender
mainstreaming
initiatives
focussing on
women, youth
and people with
disabilities
Six outreach
initiatives to
change behaviour
in relation to
gender
Eight outreach
initiatives to
support gender
mainstreaming
were undertaken
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
were undertaken

49ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Actual Audited
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
Four mentoring
and job–
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting youth
Three mentoring
and job–
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting the
youth were
undertaken
Two initiatives to
advance youth
development and
empowerment
Two initiatives to
advance youth
development and
empowerment
were undertaken
Two strategic
interventions to
strengthen the
capacity of DIRCO
to effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper on the
Rights of Persons
with Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions to
strengthen the
capacity of DIRCO
to effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper
on the Rights
of Persons with
Disabilities were
implemented
Two initiatives to
mainstream the
rights of persons
with disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities were
implemented

50
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: ADMINISTRATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Actual Audited
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
Legal advice and
services provided
in respect of
international and
domestic law
Percentage
legal advice and
services rendered
100% (389)
legal advice
and services
rendered:
 » 100% (131)
response for
advice and
assistance on
International
Law
 » 100% (258)
response for
advice and
assistance on
Domestic Law
100% (540)
legal advice
and services
rendered:
 » 100% (206)
response for
advice and
assistance on
International
Law
 » 100% (334)
response for
advice and
assistance on
Domestic Law
100% legal advice
and services
rendered
100% (582)
legal advice
and services
rendered:
 » 100% (268)
response for
advice and
assistance on
International
Law
 » 100% (314)
response for
advice and
assistance on
Domestic Law
Linking performance with budgets
Actual expenditure for 2022/23 amounted to R1.664 billion against final appropriation of R1.688 billion, which represents an underspending of R23.8 million. The
underspending is primarily attributable to the delay in property maintenance and renovation projects.

51ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Subprogramme expenditure
Subprogramme Name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Ministry  7 114  6 753  361  6 599  6 401  198
Departmental Management  9 900  9 826  74  13 974  13 766  208
Audit Services  17 119  16 771  348  21 660  16 328  5 332
Financial Management  195 849  192 369  3 480  182 841  175 092  7 749
Corporate Services  899 929  893 680  6 249  843 597  664 614  178 983
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development  50 447  50 052  395  46 382  44 497  1 885
Foreign Fixed Assets Management  73 203  63 017  10 186  83 973  18 086  65 887
Office Accommodation  434 610  431 927  2 683  427 661  409 744  17 917
Total  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776  1 626 687  1 348 528  278 159

52
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
4.2. Programme 2: International Relations
Purpose: Promote relations with foreign countries
Subprogramme 2.1: Africa
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Africa
Subprogramme 2.2: Asia and the Middle East
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Asia and the Middle East
Subprogramme 2.3: Americas and Caribbean
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in America and the Caribbean
Subprogramme 2.4: Europe
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Europe
Outcomes:
 » Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and social relations to achieve the
objectives of the National Development Plan (NDP) and the Medium-Term
Strategic Framework (MTSF) priorities
 » Increased foreign direct investment (FDI) and contributed to economic
growth in South Africa
 » Increased regional integration
AFRICA
Structured bilateral mechanisms and high–level engagements were conducted at
the level of either the President, the Deputy President, Minister or Deputy Ministers
of International Relations and Cooperation with our sister countries. These
took the form of reciprocal state visits or working visits, attending Presidential
inaugural ceremonies or undertaking political consultations to assess the state
of bilateral relations between the two countries. These engagements produced
agreements and projects in areas such as trade and investment, transport and
telecommunications services and infrastructure, mining and mineral beneficiation,
economic cooperation, forestry and wildlife management, governance and
administration, defence and security, to name but a few.
It is not possible to catalogue all the achievements in granular form, given space
and time constraints, save to mention that South Africa has intentionally rekindled
and recalibrated engagements with several countries on the continent following
the devastating COVID–19 socio–economic disruptions. We had engagements
with Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, Botswana, Mozambique, Uganda,
Seychelles, Burundi, Tanzania, Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, Algeria, Liberia,
Zimbabwe, Sierra Leone, Burundi, Seychelles and Equatorial Guinea.
South Africa’s economic diplomacy activities were undergirded and sustained by
actions of the private sector and state–owned enterprises.  Currently, there are
more than 400 South African companies doing business across the continent
and providing nationals of host countries with much–needed goods and services,
jobs and taxes. These companies are also net foreign exchange earners for
the South African economy from the approximately 1.4 billion people on the
African continent. Our diplomatic missions continued to host trade missions or
participated in business fora in support of South African companies. Worryingly,
we have observed an increasing number of South African companies that continue
to face unfavourable market conditions on the continent, such as inconsistent
regulatory frameworks and tax regimes, difficulties in repatriating their earnings,
delays in loan repayments and so on, while their competitors are not subjected to
similar conditions. Unfortunately, major brands in retail, oil and gas, construction,
hospitality, financial services and mining, among others, have as a result disinvested
from most of these African countries with devastating effect on employment
opportunities, gross domestic product growth, the fiscus of host countries and
intra–Africa trade.

53ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Contribution to regional and continental peace
The pursuit of South Africa’s development agenda enjoins us to nurture the
relations with our neighbouring countries and people of the southern Africa region
with whom we share a common history and future aspirations. To this effect,
our foreign policy outlook on the African continent remains the advancement of
the African Agenda through strengthening political and economic relations with
countries across the continent and contributing to regional and continental peace,
security, stability as well as sustainable development. As part of the Southern
African Development Community (SADC), South Africa contributes to the regional
integration agenda, which serves as the building block towards continental
integration. The Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) (2020 –
2030), in whose development South Africa ardently participated, was adopted by
the SADC Summit in 2020 as a roadmap for achieving developmental integration
and industrialisation. Its implementation is already underway although it will be
subject to periodic reviews.
As member of the SADC Organ and as SADC Facilitator to Lesotho in the transitional
process in Lesotho, the Kingdom is on a path to sustained stability and peaceful
political dispensation. Despite challenges noted by the SADC Election Observer
Mission (SEOM) in the National Assembly elections, held in October 2022, there are
signs that significant progress is being made in the reforms in Lesotho. In August
2022, the SADC Summit appointed an Oversight Committee made up of the SADC
Panel of Elders and Mediation Reference Group to ensure continuity and oversight
in the implementation of reforms in the Kingdom, effectively ending South Africa’s
mandate on the SADC Facilitation to the Kingdom of Lesotho.
South Africa has contributed troops, material resources and leadership to the SADC
Mission in Mozambique (SAMIM) since its launch in 2021 as a regional response
and support to Mozambique to combat the threat of terrorism and acts of violent
extremism in the Cabo Delgado province. Despite several gains in the fight against
the insurgents, the deployment remains in place. The overall assessment of the
security situation at the time indicated that the environment in the province of
Cabo Delgado was relatively encouraging to facilitate other lines of support. In this
regard, the deployment of the police and civilian components will support capacity–
building of the Mozambican Republic Police and Mozambican Correctional Services
through mentoring, training, advising and providing operational support, thereby
consequently contributing to peace and security in the province, as part of the
transition from Scenario Six to Scenario Five.
On the humanitarian front, we remain available to support restoration of
livelihoods, particularly as it pertains to the impact of conflict on women and
children. South Africa has, through the African Renaissance Fund, committed to
provide sustainable food production that will improve the livelihoods of affected
families in Cabo Delgado.
We celebrate the achievement of African solutions to African problems in the
hosting of the Africa Union (AU)–led peace talks between the Ethiopian Government
and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), held in Pretoria in November 2022.
The implementation of the agreement signed in Pretoria is underway. South Africa,
Kenya and Nigeria have contributed personnel to monitor the implementation
through the AU Monitoring Verification and Compliance Mechanism (MVCM).

54
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The people of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), particularly the eastern
provinces, yearn for peace and stability. The increased security dynamic in eastern
DRC also has a bearing on the deployment of the United Nations Organisation
Stabilisation Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) and the Force Intervention Brigade
(FIB), which is preparing for a drawdown. We remain committed to support
initiatives aimed at lasting peace.
Pursuant to the consolidation of democracy and promotion of good governance
in the region in line with the SADC Principles Guidelines Governing Democratic
Elections, South Africa participated in several SADC SEOMS in Angola and Lesotho
in 2022.
Regional integration
SADC remains a key component of South Africa’s foreign policy, which aims to
promote political and socio–economic integration among its member states,
and to achieve peace, security and sustainable development, allowing the region
to address the key challenges of unemployment, underdevelopment, poverty,
underinvestment in infrastructure and deindustrialisation.
In implementing the regional cooperation and integration agenda, SADC is guided
by the RISDP (2020 – 2030) and Vision 2050. The 42nd SADC Summit, held in August
2022, approved the RISDP national coordination cost estimates.
On 13 April 2022, Botswana, as Chair of Southern African Customs Union (SACU),
hosted the SACU Ministers of Trade Investment Roundtable following the decision
of the 45th Meeting of the SACU Council of Ministers (CoM), held on 9 December
2021. The Investment Roundtable was held under the theme: Positioning SACU as an
Industrial, Investment, Manufacturing and Innovation Hub for the African Continent and
Beyond. The Investment Roundtable was aimed at positioning SACU as an industrial
and manufacturing hub through the development of regional value chains.
Furthermore, it endeavoured at promoting investment opportunities in the
following priority sectors:
 » meat and meat products
 » fruits and vegetables
 » leather and leather products
 » textiles and clothing
 » cosmetics and essential oils
 » pharmaceuticals.
South Africa participated in the Seventh Summit of SACU, preceded by the SACU
CoM Meeting, held in June 2022, which adopted a communiqué reflecting on global
of developments, including decisions critical to Africa as adopted at the 12th World
Trade Organisation (WTO) Ministerial Conference, the importance of remaining
resolute to implementing COVID–19 recovery programmes as well as the impact
of the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine on SACU economies. Noting
the SACU vision of advancing industrialisation, the summit endorsed the SACU
Strategic Plan 2022 – 2027 and its refocussed Work Programme and Priorities. The
summit also reaffirmed SACU’s commitment to the African Continental Free Trade
Area (AfCFTA) as well as its full and practical implementation. On administrative
matters, the summit noted that Eswatini would assume the Chair of SACU from 15
July 2022 and that the term of office for the Executive Secretary of SACU would end
in October 2022.
South Africa, through its SADC National Contact Point, regularly engages relevant
national departments in the implementation of the RISDP 2020 – 2030 to identify
any possible challenges. This is done cognisant of the fact that line–function
departments are responsible for their respective statutory commitments and for
advocating South Africa’s national policy positions at SADC level when attending
SADC sectoral ministerial meetings.

55ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
AMERICAS AND EUROPE
United States (US) and Canada
During the Strategic Dialogue Meeting of September 2022 with the US, the two
ministers took stock of the robust bilateral cooperation across different sectors
and exchanged perspectives on regional and global issues of common interest, as
well as identified new areas to expand and strengthen the strategic partnership.
The ministers further exchanged views on pertinent bilateral, regional and global
issues, including in the context of the rapidly changing international relations
environment. Developments in the SADC region were discussed in the context
of South Africa’s Chairship of the SADC Organ on Politics, Defence and Security,
and South Africa advocated for the lifting of sanctions to allow the Zimbabwean
economy to recover.
On global issues, South Africa reiterated its position on the use of peace–building
dialogue, mediation and negotiations, including through the offices of the UN
Secretary–General, to bring an end to the conflict and intolerable human suffering
in Ukraine. The impact of the conflict on food security in Africa was also highlighted.
South Africa expressed its willingness to play a role in resolving the conflict, based
on our own experiences with conflict resolution. The discussion on the situation
in Palestine provided an opportunity for South Africa to call for consistency in the
implementation of international law and international humanitarian law.
The parties further discussed the support of the US (and other European countries)
to support a Just Energy Transition in South Africa. The discussion on health
included successful cooperation in combatting HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis through
the PEPFAR programme, as well as ongoing cooperation in combatting COVID–19
and US support for local vaccine manufacturing. In trade and investment, South
Africa advocated for the extension of the African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA), which expires in 2025 and looked forward to hosting the AGOA Forum
in 2023. The timely resolution of market–access issues and cooperation in the
implementation of the AfCFTA were also discussed, including the need to diversify
and localise supply chains. Progress is underway to establish a bilateral Advisory
Task Force to boost bilateral trade and investment levels and deal with challenges
as they arise. Infrastructure development was identified as a priority for both sides,
with an emphasis on transportation and logistics.
During the meeting of the Working Group on Africa and Global Issues (WGAGI)
in Washington in September 2022, the two sides took a decision to have a two–
track approach towards the Ethiopian conflict, wherein the US will address Eritrea’s
involvement in the conflict while South Africa pushes forward the peace talks
under the stewardship of former Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo–Ngcuka. The
US indicated its concurrence that it should be part of the peace negotiations as
requested by the TPLF. Subsequently, South Africa hosted a successful meeting
of the warring parties in October 2022, which paved the way for an agreement on
the permanent cessation of hostilities and unhindered access for humanitarian
supplies.
During President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Official Visit to Washington DC from 15 to 16
of September 2022, bilateral talks between the two leaders focussed on a range of
critical issues of national, regional and global importance i.e. energy, stability and
global and food security. South Africa strongly lobbied against the Malign Russian
Activities in Africa Bill, which was subsequently abandoned. Other discussions
included support for strengthening health systems, UN reform and building the
capacity of the State. President Ramaphosa additionally addressed business
leaders, former members of the Anti–Apartheid Movement in the US and members
of the Congressional Black Caucus. All these engagements were well received and
served to convey South Africa’s foreign policy positions, values, principles and
perspectives on a range of regional and global issues that impact the country and
the continent.
Minister Naledi Pandor represented South Africa at the US–Africa Leaders’ Summit
in Washington from 13 to 15 December 2022. The key outcomes discussed were
people–to–people ties, global governance and diplomatic engagement, trade,
investment and inclusive growth, technology and innovation, health, food security,

56
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
climate change, democracy and governance, peace and security and the AfCFTA.
South Africa also participated in the US–Africa Business Forum and advocated for
an African continent that is productive, industrialised, self–dependent and fully
engaged in a modern digital world. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on
Cooperation for Trade and Investment between the Government of the US and the
AfCFTA Secretariat was signed.
There have been positive trends in inbound tourism from North America, which
showed an increase of 210.6% at the end of 2022, in comparison to the arrivals in
2021. In September 2022, 184 330 tourists arrived from the US, which is a 257%
increase from the previous year.
There are ongoing negotiations to renew the South Africa–US Nuclear Cooperation
Agreement, which expired in December 2022.
The Annual Consultations with Canada, which were originally scheduled for October
2022, were postponed to May 2023.
During the height of the pandemic, South African and Canadian scientists had
several engagements to share plans and proposals on the mutual objective of
building and strengthening bio–manufacturing capacities towards preparedness
for future pandemics, and the approach to science–based policymaking continued
in 2022/23. Following the engagement between the health scientists, an MoU on
Health Sector Collaboration has been finalised and is ready for signature. Canada
became the second–biggest donor to the SA mRNA Hub, having contributed an
initial US$15 million through the G20 and during April 2023, Canada announced an
additional contribution of US$ 4,5 million.
During 2022, Canada, though not part of the Just Energy Transition Partnership
(JET–P), started engaging the South African Presidency to become involved in South
Africa’s JET, together with the World Bank, and offered to provide a sovereign loan
to be used for the JET. This matter is under discussion with the National Treasury.
There was also mutual agreement to enhance judicial cooperation with Canada.
The conclusion of the modernised Audio–visual Co–Production Agreement will
contribute to the growth of the audio–visual industries of both countries and to the
development of economic and cultural exchanges.
There is robust cooperation around science, technology and innovation, covering
such areas as sustainable development, climate change, critical minerals, and digital
health, as well as policy dialogue on open science and cooperation in Indigenous
Knowledge Systems (IKS).
Latin America and Caribbean
Cuba
Health cooperation
Around 200 Cuban doctors are currently deployed in eight South African provinces
and are rendering medical and healthcare services in rural communities. A total of
74 South African medical students are enrolled in the Nelson Mandela Fidel Castro
Health Programme. The National Department of Health (NDOH) is considering the
feasibility of implementing a Cuban model of medical training in South Africa. The
NDOH is doing a benchmarking study on the Angolan experience of implementing
a Cuban Model Medical Training Programme. There are 11 Cuban professors that
are teaching at the Walter Sisulu University Medical School.
Biopharmaceuticals cooperation
The departments of international relations and cooperation; science and
innovation; and THE NDOH have been engaging Cuban counterparts to expand
health cooperation in the areas of joint research, product development and
commercialisation of vaccines and pharmaceutical products for the treatment of
ailments such as cancer and diabetes.
Heberprot-P, a Cuban foot ulcer remedy, was recently registered with the South
African Health Products Regulatory Authority and is ready for commercialisation in
South Africa. The Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (CIGB), which
developed the Heberprot-B, has signed an agreement with Kahma Healthcare

57ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Group (shareholder in Biovac), allowing Kahma to market and distribute the Cuban
foot ulcer product in South Africa.
Biovac, the vaccine company that the South African Government has a 47,5% share
in, concluded an agreement with CIGB for the provision of the Hepatitis B vaccine.
More than 30 million doses have been supplied to South Africa through this
agreement. The vaccine is commercialised under the Biovac name Heberbio HBV.
Economic Assistance Package (EAP)
The EAP to Cuba coordinated by the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition
has made a meaningful contribution to increasing South African exports to Cuba,
especially agricultural products, plastic resins, trucks and tyres. Through the
package, exports of South African goods were increased, jobs were created and
retained, there was business reinvestment, consumer support to the South African
manufacturing sector and channels for payment from Cuba were established.
Water and sanitation
Cooperation with Cuba in the areas of water and sanitation is progressing well with
25 Cuban engineers deployed through the Department of Water and Sanitation in
all provinces to work on water infrastructure projects.
Public works
The Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is finalising the appointment of
40 Cuban technical assistants as per the Extended Bilateral Agreement with Cuba
under Phase III.
Basic education
There are currently 19 Cuban curriculum specialists deployed in the provincial
education departments of the Eastern Cape, Gauteng, Free State and Limpopo.
Each provincial department of education benefits from tailored, fit-for-purpose
activities and programmes to help train South African teachers in Mathematics and
Science.
Amendments to the current South Africa-Cuba Agreement on Basic Education is
being considered to include additional areas of cooperation related to:
 » Early Childhood Development
 » Mathematics and Sciences
 » Information, Communications and Technology
 » Technical and Vocational Education and Training.
Higher education
The Department of Higher Education and Training and the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) are engaging the Cuban Ministry of Higher Education
to finalise an agreement on the mutual recognition of qualifications. The conclusion
of the agreement will allow for the recognition by SAQA of Cuban medical and other
experts deployed in South Africa. The agreement will also benefit the recognition of
the qualifications obtained by South African medical students in Cuba.
Jamaica
Science and technology cooperation
Through the Agreement of Science and Technology and the Joint Committee on
Science and Technology, South Africa has helped Jamaica to develop its indigenous
knowledge policy and systems. Jamaica has, in turn, assisted South Africa to
develop its regulatory framework system for cannabis and best practices in
growing nutraceutical plants such as marijuana, lemon grass and eucalyptus, and
the commercialisation thereof.
Inaugural political consultations
The Inaugural South Africa-Jamaica Senior Officials Political Consultations were
held in Kingston in June 2022. The two parties agreed to strengthen relations
and cooperation in several areas, such as arts and culture, agribusiness, health,
science and technology, sport (athletics), tourism and trade and investment. With
regard to tourism, there is agreement to facilitate cooperation and the exchange

58
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
of best practices in eco-tourism, adventure tourism, tourism investment and multi-
destination tourism.
Mexico
Launch of a South African company in Mexico
Centurion Systems, a South African company that manufactures motors for access
automation, had a successful launch in Mexico in October 2022, with the presence
of the South Africa Honorary Consul in Guadalajara, Mr Jorge Corvera. Centurion
Systems will use Mexico as a base country to expand to other Latin American
countries. This was followed by a technical team visit in February 2023, whereby
training of and certifying technical team members were undertaken in Guadalajara.
South Africa maize exports to Mexico
Mexico is the highest producer of white corn globally with South Africa being the
second-highest. In 2022, Mexico produced a total of 23 million tonnes of white
maize, with the vast majority being destined for national consumption. White maize
is an essential staple of the basic food diet in Mexico and across Central America-
and is used to make the mass, which is then used to make the flour that produces
tortillas – a key ingredient of tacos.
Mexico lowered its production levels of basic grains in 2021 and 2022 in part due
to higher costs. This created opportunities for the purchase of white maize from
international markets and South Africa has been able to take advantage of the
opportunity. Mexico has been purchasing higher amounts of yellow maize, which is
used almost exclusively for animal feeds.
Already in the beginning of the production maize cycle of 2021/22, Mexican
importers had forward contracted with suppliers of white maize exports from
South Africa when they determined that the Mexican domestic production would
be relatively lower and sourced its white maize imports from South Africa.
Argentina
Since 1994, bilateral relations between South Africa and Argentina have
strengthened and cover a wide range of areas of cooperation under the umbrella
of the Bi-National Commission that was established in September 2005, such as
agriculture, arts and culture, Antarctic, ocean cooperation, defence, energy, science
and technology, sport, tourism, trade, and investment bilaterally and through the
Southern African Customs Union- Southern Common Market Preferential Trade
Agreement. At multilateral level, the two countries cooperate closely in the G20
and United Nations.
On 25 August 2022, the Argentine Civil Association, GEMA, which is made up of
women who contribute and share their work and professional skills with like-
minded business associates worldwide, and the South African Circle of Global
Businesswomen, a non-profit organisation in South Africa made up of women
dedicated to empowerment, leadership and innovation aimed at elevating African
women to global fora and markets, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
on Cooperation. In terms of the MOU, the two organisations seek to establish:
 » exchange programmes
 » access to global markets
 » women trade missions between Argentina and South Africa
 » networking and peer learning opportunities with like-minded entrepreneurs
 » exchange skills development programmes
 » relations between women entrepreneurs in Argentine and South African
women.
Furthermore, business-to-business webinars on agriculture and chemicals were
organised by the South African Embassy in Buenos Aires to facilitate commercial
relations between the two countries.

59ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Brazil
The Mission in Brasilia and Consulate General in São Paulo have several engagements
with government (national and provincial), business, science councils and academic
institutions to strengthen diplomatic, economic and commercial relations and
technical cooperation in agribusiness, arts and culture, defence, energy, mining,
science and innovation, sport and tourism. The National Youth Development
Agency (NYDA) and the South African Embassy facilitate training opportunities
for four young people at the University of São Paulo Agriculture Summer School
from 25 July to 5 August 2022. Subsequently, the NYDA signed an MoU with the
University of São Paulo for a three-year technical cooperation programme.
Chile
On 18 September 2022, Deputy Minister Botes undertook a Working Visit to Santiago,
Chile, for political consultations with the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs, Ms
Ximena Fuentes, to strengthen diplomatic, economic and social relations, technical
cooperation and multilateral relations. The two principals agreed to strengthen
cooperation in arts, culture, sport, agribusiness (especially technical cooperation in
fisheries and aquaculture), Antarctica cooperation, education (through institutional
partnerships and academic exchanges and the reactivation of the Nelson Mandela
Scholarship focussing on fisheries and aquaculture and astronomy, including astro-
engineering and astrophysics), Antarctic sciences and research, bio-engineering,
forestry, mining and vocational and technical education.
The Deputy Minister had a meeting with the South Africa-Chile Chamber of
Commerce and a Business Networking Session to share information about the
political, economic and business environment, the Africa Continental Free Trade
Area (AfCFTA) and to promote trade and investment partnerships in mining, mining
equipment and mining technology and services as well as beverages, especially
wine.
The Mission in Santiago embarked on myriad economic diplomacy initiatives to
implement the economic diplomacy strategy through trade and investment
seminars with chambers of commerce and industry in Chile, Peru, Bolivia and
Ecuador. The mission used these platforms to promote investment and trade
opportunities presented by the AfCFTA.
The mission also co-hosted webinars on:
 » opportunities for foreign companies in the mining and energy sector
 » investment opportunities in the marine and aquaculture sectors in the
Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal
 » promotion of the South African wine industry
 » the North-West Province Mining and Energy Conference
 » the Northern Cape Province Mining and Minerals Investment Conference
 » Western Cape tourism, trade, investment and boatbuilding.
The mission also held an engagement with the management of Women in Mining
Chile (WIMChile) to facilitate the establishment of relations between WIMChile
and their South African counterparts, Women in Mining South Africa. The mission
also met Chilean fishing and aquaculture companies to promote investment
opportunities in the aquaculture sector in South Africa.
The mission followed up on pledges made at the Presidential investment
conferences, such as the US$200-million pledge made by ENAEX in 2019 to purchase
the explosives business of Sasol. Subsequently, this transaction was successfully
concluded. Since then, ENAEX has made the following additional investments:
 » R16 million upgrade of the Delmas production facility and a new service site
in Mogalakwena both in Mpumalanga
 » R10 million to expand their current bulk emulsion facility in Secunda
 » R16 million in the “daveytronic” electronic detonator assembly plant in
Secunda.
Follow-up was also made with Magotteaux, a subsidiary of Sigdo Koppers, which
initiated negotiations to raise an equity stake in Grinding Media South Africa

60
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
from 17% to 51% to the tune of US40 million; and an approximately R600-million
investment by the Portuguese/Chilean joint venture Sonae Arauco (more that R180
million for a solar plant and over R410 million for a new specialised production
facility).
The mission engaged higher educations institutions, such as the Pontificia
Universidad Catὀlica de Chile (PUC), University of Mayor de San Andres in Bolivia,
University of San Francisco of Quito in Ecuador and Catholic University of Peru to
facilitate institutional, academic, research and student exchanges.
Ecuador
Launch of Political Consultations
The inaugural South Africa-Ecuador Political Consultations meeting at senior
officials level was held virtually on 19 May 2022 to strengthen bilateral relations
with Ecuador and agreed on the following:
 » increased interaction between the two countries, through bilateral visits and
people-to-people cooperation
 » defence industry cooperation and naval cooperation
 » cooperation in the field of environment
 » technical cooperation in aquaculture
 » higher education institutional cooperation
 » cooperation on mineral resources and energy
 » science and technology
 » social development
 » trade and economic cooperation.
The two parties also exchanged views on regional and multilateral issues of mutual
interest and agreed to cooperate in this field.
Paraguay
In September 2022, Minister Naledi Pandor and her Paraguayan counterpart
concluded the MoU on the Establishment of Political Consultations between the
two countries. It is envisaged that the Political Consultations will serve as a strategic
tool to develop and consolidate bilateral relations between the two countries,
which will also serve to forge closer ties at multilateral level.
Uruguay
Foreign Affairs Vice Minister Carolina Ache Batlle of Uruguay, at the invitation of
Deputy Minister Botes, visited South Africa to co-host the Inaugural Meeting of the
Bilateral Consultative Mechanism, thus bringing into operation the MoU on the
Establishment of a Bilateral Consultative Mechanism between the two countries.
During the Bilateral Consultative Mechanism, the two countries agreed to
strengthen cooperation in a number of areas, including
 » agri-business
 » the matter of employment of spouses of diplomats
 » defence relations
 » minerals and energy (especially renewable energy)
 » social security
 » sport
 » software development
 » trade and investment.
Furthermore, Vice Minister Ache Batlle held a meeting with the President of the
Johannesburg Chamber of Commerce and Industry and agreed to conclude
an institutional MoU on cooperation on promotion of trade and economic
development.

61ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Venezuela
Deputy Minister Botes undertook a Working Visit on 15 September 2022 to
Venezuela in preparation of the incoming visit by President Nicolás Maduro at
the invitation of President Cyril Ramaphosa. Deputy Minister Botes had bilateral
meetings with the ministries of foreign affairs, productive agriculture, mining and
culture.
Western Europe
The Western Europe countries and the European Union (EU) remain South Africa’s
biggest trade and investment partners and an important source of skills and
technology transfer and acquisition, as well as tourism. The significant number of
structured bilateral mechanisms and high–level visits from these countries in the
2022/23 financial year was a demonstration of the importance that these countries
attach to their relations with South Africa.
President Ramaphosa hosted a State Visit by King Philippe of Belgium from 22 to
27 March 2023. The Royal Visit refocussed the importance of South Africa–Belgium
ties in trade and investment (especially in renewable energy, vaccine development,
logistics and food and beverages) as well as joint research programmes, academic
and cultural exchanges and the programmes that Belgium supports to uplift
disadvantaged communities in South Africa.
Minister Naledi Pandor and the Belgian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Hadja Lahbib,
held a bilateral meeting on 23 March 2023, which enabled constructive discussion
on the challenges facing Europe and the African continent and ironing out political
and trade and investment issues between South Africa and Belgium.
The Fourth Meeting of the South Africa–Belgium Joint Commission was hosted
by Deputy Minister Alvin Botes on 8 November 2022. The Joint Commission was
preceded by the meeting of two technical working groups, one on climate and
the second on higher education, science and innovation. There was an agreement
on the importance of the JET, cooperation in science and innovation e.g., through
Belgian investment in Afrigen, support for the establishment of an mRNA Transfer
Hub and potential for greater cooperation between South Africa and Belgium on
climate issues. Both sides noted the increase in trade, investment and tourism
during 2022.
Minister–President Jan Jambon of Flanders, Belgium, visited South Africa in April
2022. Minister–President Jambon launched the first Chair in Netherlandic Studies
at the University of Pretoria on 4 April 2022. Minister–President Jambon also visited
the Windybrow Theatre in Hillbrow and one of the outcomes was that cultural
management students from Wits University would travel to Flanders to do their
internships there, while Flemish students would travel to South Africa and do their
internships at community arts centres. During the Minister–President’s meeting
with the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Dr Blade Nzimande,
an MoU between the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the Flemish
Institute for Technological Research was signed. Minister–President Jambon also
met with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition, Ebrahim Patel, and they
agreed to continue in–depth discussions on green hydrogen, ports, trade barriers
and food security.
Mr Guy Parmelin, the Federal Councellor (Minister) of the Department of Economic
Affairs, Education and Research of Switzerland, paid an Official Visit to South Africa
from 5 to 8 July 2022. During his visit, Mr Parmelin met with the Minister of Finance
and the Minister of Employment and Labour. He also addressed a Business Forum
in Johannesburg with the Deputy Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition; and
visited universities and Swiss companies based in South Africa. Federal Councellor
Parmelin was accompanied by a delegation of 36 people, which included a business
and a science component.

62
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The 10th Swiss–South Africa High–Level Consultation (HLC) Meeting was co–chaired
by Deputy Minister Botes and State Secretary Livia Leu from Switzerland on 9 March
2023 in Pretoria. The HLC Meeting was preceded by meetings of the working groups
on foreign policy, human rights, economic development and science, technology
and education. Cooperation in science, innovation and education was emphasised
as one of the focus areas of South Africa’s relations with Switzerland, for example
the Swiss–South African Joint Research Programme, the scholarships that the Swiss
Government has granted to South African students and collaboration on vocational
and technical training programmes.
The Third Meeting of the South Africa–Austria Bilateral Consultations was co–
chaired by Deputy Minister Botes and his counterpart, the Secretary–General of
the Federal Ministry for European and International Affairs in Austria, Mr Peter
Launsky–Tieffenthal, in Pretoria on 7 June 2022. The consultations and the meetings
of the four working groups on arts and culture; energy and environment; higher
education, science and innovation; and trade and investment laid the groundwork
for enhancing the relations with Austria and for the planned State Visit to South
Africa by President Alexander Van der Bellen.
Ambassador Maud Dlomo, Deputy Director–General (DDG): Americas and Europe,
hosted her counterpart, Ambassador Erica Schoutien, the DDG for Political Affairs
of The Netherlands at DIRCO on 16 November 2022. The meeting took the form of
a review of the progress made with the implementation of decisions of the Second
Joint Commission, which was hosted in The Hague on 22 November 2021. The
meeting served to consolidate cooperation in climate change and sustainable
energy, agriculture, water management, higher education, science and innovation
and manufacturing.
Since 1994, bilateral relations between South Africa and the United Kingdom (UK)
have grown into a key developmental partnership, as reflected in the substantial
bilateral trade recorded. Politically, the countries have over the years frequently
collaborated in various multilateral organisations to advance shared ideals and
objectives, including in the G20 and the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).
President Ramaphosa was the first Head of State to be invited by His Majesty King
Charles III for a State Visit in November 2022. The State Visit was substantively
significant as the first meeting at this level after Brexit and came at a time when the
economies of most countries, including South Africa and the UK, were still suffering
from the disruption caused by the pandemic and compounded by the Ukraine–
Russia conflict. The visit provided an opportunity for South Africa and the UK to
identify new areas of collaboration in advancing economic recovery and stability
and reaffirming the solid foundation between the two countries.
Bilateral political and economic relations between South Africa and Ireland
are strong, covering a wide range of cooperation in areas such as education,
immigration, energy, trade and investment, tourism, arts and culture, agriculture,
science and innovation, and gender equality.
To enhance bilateral economic relations, South Africa and France have committed
to make a greater effort to expand business opportunities and explore the
potential for diversified trade and investment links between the two countries.
French companies at the 2022 South Africa Investment Conference committed
R50 billion of new investments in South Africa in different sectors, including energy,
health, tourism, mobility, retail, manufacturing and agro industry. It followed the
R20 billion in investment commitments in 2019, a pledge which has already been
fulfilled. About 400 French companies, from highly internationalised groups to
small and medium–sized enterprises, have a presence in South Africa and they
directly employ around 65 000 people in the country.
The President of the Government of Spain, Mr Pedro Sánchez, undertook an Official
Visit to the Republic of South Africa on 27 October 2022, the first such visit by Spain
to South Africa. The official discussions reviewed the bilateral relations between the
two countries and focussed on bilateral trade and investment, climate change and
renewable energy, sport, culture, education and science and innovation. President
Sánchez underscored his country’s extensive experience in the renewable
energy sector and announced that Spain would make available approximately
€2.11 billion in the coming five years to support the participation of Spanish

63ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
companies in renewable energy and climate–related projects in South Africa. This
financial support will be made available through different financial instruments.
South Africa and Portugal maintain friendly political relations and the two countries
have strong historical and cultural ties, serving as an important economic link
between South Africa and Portugal. Bilateral relations between Portugal and
South Africa cover a wide range of areas of cooperation. The Seventh Bilateral
Consultations were hosted in Portugal on 24 June 2022 and co–chaired by
Deputy Minister Botes and Portuguese Secretary of State of Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation, Mr Francisco André. The main areas of cooperation that came under
review at the Bilateral Consultations included agriculture, basic education, defence,
oceans economy, science and technology, tourism, and trade and investment.
The Working Visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikos Dendias, on 24 and
25 January 2023 was the first by a Greek Foreign Minister in 25 years. The visit
was significant, given the large Greek Diaspora who have settled in South Africa
and who played a key role in the fight against apartheid as well as contributing
significantly to the South Africa economy.
Tourism numbers from Western European countries have increased significantly
since the slump during the COVID–19 pandemic and indications are that it may
reach pre–pandemic numbers in 2023.
Central and Eastern Europe, Nordic and Baltic countries
Nordic and Baltic countries:
In addition to the Minister’s visits to the Nordic region, DIRCO continued to expand
relations with the Nordic countries, which are playing a particularly important role
in South Africa’s renewable energy and just transition.
There were further bilateral commitments and investments from Denmark in
agriculture, energy, water management and inner–city development, while new
investments were registered when Sasol and Topsoe signed an MoU with the intent
to establish a joint venture for the production of aviation fuels and Copenhagen
Investment Holdings bought a major share in Mulilo Energy Holdings, the largest
South African–owned renewable energy independent power producer.
Having already made a major investment in green hydrogen and renewable energy
solar production (almost R21 billion), Norway again increased its investments when
Sasol and Cambi signed a deal for the production of biofuels from biomass. South
Africa has extensive cooperation with Norway in the areas of oceans management,
education, peace mediation, global health, human rights and woman, peace and
security.
For Finland, and despite South Africa closing its mission in 2022 in Helsinki, relations
continued to expand in the areas of basic education, education for young adults
who are out of school on water management, agriculture, renewable energy, the
circular economy and the use of renewable materials for building. South Africa
and Finland also signed letters of intent for cooperation on energy and digital
infrastructure, as well as on peace mediation and capacity–building. Nokia and
MTN announced a major deal for 5G roll–out across the eastern part of South
Africa and southern Africa.
The Swedes and Norwegians are supporting the establishment of a state guarantee
for Mirova Sunfunder’s Gigaton Empowerment Fund valued at US$500 million.
The fund will provide loans to small and medium–sized enterprises in low–income
countries that invest in decentralised solar energy for households and businesses.
The main focus of the fund aims at sub–Saharan Africa, which will make up 72% of
the loan portfolio.
South Africa continued to expand and diversify its bilateral relations with countries
of the Baltic region and held consultations with both Lithuania and Latvia during
2022/23. Deputy Minister Botes visited Lithuania in September 2022 during which
both parties affirmed the intention to seek closer engagement at a bilateral and
multilateral level, and to strengthen economic diplomacy through cooperation in
the areas of energy, ICT and digital skills, financial technology, life sciences, food

64
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
safety and security and agriculture. In support of enhancing cooperation and easing
the movement of people, a Visa Waiver Agreement was signed for diplomatic and
official passport holders, and Lithuania was added to the list of countries for an
e–visa.
South Africa also engaged Latvia when the Minister met with her counterpart at the
United Nations (UN) General Assembly, and a senior officials’ consultation was held
in November 2022 in Pretoria. The Latvians presented their candidature for a non–
permanent seat at the UN Security Council for 2026/27, with South Africa sharing
its knowledge and experience, and offering further engagements on regional peace
and security matters. The consultations also agreed on expanding cooperation in
niche areas and in December 2022, Latvia hosted a delegation from South Africa
on e–governance and shared their policies, regulations and frameworks to help
South Africa achieve a paperless governance system by 2025.
Central Europe
During the 2022/23 financial year, the Directorate: Central Europe strove to promote
and maintain bilateral political, economic and social relations with countries in the
Central European region through structured bilateral mechanisms and high–level
visits. The following senior officials’ meetings were held:
 » South Africa–Hungary Senior Officials Meeting, held on 4 October 2022
 » South Africa–Romania Senior Officials Meeting, held on 28 February 2023
 » South Africa–Croatia Senior Officials Meeting, held on 14 March 2023
 » South Africa–Slovenia Senior Officials Meeting, held on 27 March 2023.
Deputy Minister Botes also held the following political consultations with his
counterparts in the region:
 » South Africa–Czech Political Consultations, held on 30 October 2022
 » South Africa–Poland Political Consultations, held on 2 December 2022.
Deputy Minister Botes also met the delegation of the Czech Republic’s Special
Envoy to the Sahel, Mr Tomas Ulicny, and the Ambassador to South Africa on 15
December 2022 and engaged on developments in the Sahel region.
These engagements assisted in strengthening the relations with the respective
countries in the region, and further served to highlight the areas in which steps
needed to be taken to improve economic relations.
The Business Unit, in partnership with the Embassy of Poland and the South
African Institute of International Affairs, also held a successful event, entitled Three
Decades of Cooperation Between South Africa and Poland, on 22 September 2022 at
Wits University in Johannesburg.
Cooperation between South Africa and Central European countries has
progressed extensively since 2016 with programmes such as the Stipendium
Hungaricum Scholarship Programme that has so far benefitted almost 200 South
African students having travelled to Hungary to study in various fields of natural
sciences and sustainable environment, engineering and ICT, animal production
and food science, economics, bioenergetics and renewable energy, business and
management studies, and tourism and at various levels of Bachelors, Masters and
PHD.
There are also various other exchange programmes with Bulgaria, Czech Republic,
Romania, Poland and Croatia at an advanced stage of establishment, with some
being extended. Various specialised programmes such as Skills Naval Architecture,
Maritime Skills such as Marine Engineering and Shipbuilding are set to be finalised
with Croatia and Poland within the context of job creation.
Tűrkiye
Significant progress in South Africa–Tűrkiye political and economic relations was
recorded in the 2022/23 period. On 10 January 2023, Minister Pandor hosted her
Tűrkiye counterpart, Mr Mevlut Çavuşoğlu, for bilateral Political Consultations. The
two ministers agreed on various steps to further strengthen bilateral political and

65ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
economic relations as well as Africa–Türkiye relations. A positive development in
the bilateral relationship with Tűrkiye was the conclusion of the MoU on Scientific
and Technological Cooperation.
Türkiye remains a key investment partner for South Africa and has already invested
in several projects with direct capital investment estimated at about R156.80 million
over the past decade. Bilateral trade between the two countries has seen a gradual
growth over recent years. During the period January to December 2022, South
African exports to Türkiye increased by approximately 18%. At the SA Investment
Conference held in April 2023, the Türkiye–based company Arçelik and owners
of Defy, pledged for the third time by investing R288 million in their white goods
manufacturing facilities in KwaZulu–Natal.
South Africa also rendered humanitarian assistance to Tűrkiye after the devastating
earthquakes in February 2023. Assistance was rendered through several NGOs,
including Gift of the Givers Foundation, HopeSA Foundation and the Al Imdaad
Foundation. Several donations and financial contributions were also made by South
African companies, individuals and religious institutions. In addition, the NDOH
contributed 10 tons of personal protective equipment (PPE), which were sent for
the earthquake victims in Tűrkiye while DIRCO provided humanitarian assistance
to the Government of the Republic of Türkiye with a contribution to the amount
of R5 million, through the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of the UN.
The Government of Türkiye expressed its “heartfelt appreciation and gratitude for
the invaluable support and solidarity” extended by the South African Government
following the devastating earthquakes.
European Union
The high–level meetings which occurred during the period under review underscore
the importance of the South Africa–EU Strategic Partnership. The outcomes are
indicative of the determination on both sides to strengthen the relationship and to
honour the obligations and duties that come with having a strategic partnership.
In July 2022, the President of the European Council, Mr Charles Michel, paid a visit
to South Africa and held a meeting with President Ramaphosa.
During 2022/23, the following South Africa high–level structured mechanisms were
held:
 » 10th South Africa–EU Political and Security Dialogue Forum, Brussels, 5
September 2022
 » 15th South Africa–EU Joint Cooperation Council, Pretoria, 7 December 2022
 » 15th South Africa–EU Ministerial Political Dialogue, Pretoria, 27 January 2023.
Importantly, this is the first time that the various engagements under the Strategic
Partnership are taking place as they were meant to be synchronised and will
ultimately feed into the Eighth South Africa–EU Summit to be held later in 2023.
The EU is South Africa’s largest trading partner as a bloc. Since the South Africa–
EU Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement came into force, total trade
increased five–fold. The EU remains an important funder of health, education
and science, as was recently evidenced with the launch of a €100–million regional
teachers training programme by the EU during the visit for the South Africa–EU
Ministerial Political Dialogue.
ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
Asia
Southeast Asia
President Ramaphosa attended the annual 17th G20 Leaders’ Summit in Bali,
Indonesia, from 15 to 16 November 2022. The President participated in deliberations
with world leaders whose economies account for 85% of the global gross domestic
product (GDP), 80% of world trade and two–thirds of the world’s population. Among
others, the G20 Summit sought to increase multilateral cooperation for the recovery
of the global economy, bring stability to the global financial system, promote long–
term sustainable growth and strengthen global economic governance. President

66
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Ramaphosa also held bilateral meetings with heads of state and government to
strengthen South Africa’s diplomatic, economic and cultural ties.
As Indonesia is also the current Chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN), the opportunity was also utilised to leverage support for South Africa’s
application to become a Sectoral Dialogue Partner (SDP) of ASEAN (application
lodged on 8 December 2022), which will create further opportunities for closer
economic ties with the ASEAN market with a huge consumption potential and
economic opportunities for trade and investment for South Africa and the African
continent. South Africa has a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with Indonesia.
Furthermore, South Africa hosted the Fifth South Africa–Philippines Bilateral
Consultative Forum (BCF) on 23 February 2023 in Pretoria. The BCF was co–
chaired by the Deputy Minister Candith Mashego–Dlamini and Ms Theresa Lazaro,
Undersecretary of Bilateral Relations and ASEAN Affairs of the Department of
Foreign Affairs of the Philippines. The meeting further consolidated the existing
bilateral cooperation, which afforded an opportunity to review existing bilateral
agreements and to put forward proposals on additional agreements that may be
required to enhance cooperation in various fields. An MoU on Diplomatic Training,
Research and Development was signed.
There is a steady growth of South African exports to the Philippines from various
sectors. Market access for South African citrus to the Philippines was received in
2021. Sales of South African wines, juices and fruits have shown a marked increase
and are available on retail shelves across the country.
There was a significant increase of South Africa exports of agricultural products
to Vietnam, Malaysia and the Philippines in 2021. This assists in creating jobs and
addressing poverty reduction in South Africa. It was a significant achievement that
South Africa obtained market access to export citrus to the Philippines in 2021.
Cooperation in the Halal sector was identified with a high growth potential in
our economic diplomacy engagement with the Southeast Asian region. Malaysia
is considered a world leader in Halal development and certification. There exists
great potential to cooperate on Halal development and to increase South African
exports in this sector.
South Asia and Central Asia
In leveraging South Africa’s relations with the countries of South Asia, its Strategic
Partnership with India has important dimensions beyond the bilateral facets, as
well as more exclusive groupings such as the India–Brazil–South Africa Dialogue
Forum (IBSA); the Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) platform; and
the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). South Africa and India will be celebrating
30 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations in 2023.
It is encouraging that trade between South Africa and India continued to grow
despite the COVID–19 pandemic and that the total trade figure has overtaken pre–
pandemic levels (total trade for 2022 stood at R 217.5 billion). The growth, amid a
worldwide pandemic, is evidence of the strategic value of the bilateral relationship.
India is also an important partner, especially in terms of foreign direct investment
(FDI), skills development and technical cooperation.
South Africa is set to host the 11th Session of the South Africa–India Joint Ministerial
Commission (JMC) in 2023. South Africa is of the view that the JMC will provide an
excellent opportunity for the two countries to take stock of achievements over the
last 30 years and seek to reinvigorate the Strategic Partnership post COVID–19.
The renewal of the Three–Year Strategic Programme of Cooperation 2023 – 2026
(SPoC), of which the SPoC 2019 – 2022 was initially signed during the State Visit of
President Ramaphosa to India in 2019, will ensure that cooperation between South
Africa and India remains focussed on the achievement of prosperity for the citizens
of both countries.
A particular area of importance for South Africa is economic cooperation. While
the trade relationship between South Africa and India continues to expand, South
Africa would like to engage in the identification of additional areas to ensure the
further expansion of trade.

67ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
South Africa and India’s cooperation on the project to reintroduce the cheetah in
India was groundbreaking for environmentalists from both countries. South Africa
is hopeful that this cooperation will serve as a building block for greater cooperation
in environmental research.
The Agreement establishing the Joint Commission between South Africa and
Pakistan was signed on 25 November 2021 in South Africa. The signing of the
agreement is expected to further reinforce the existing relationship between the
two countries and create opportunities for enhanced cooperation in the fields of
tourism, trade and investment as well as other economic sectors, such as renewable
energy, agriculture, higher education, science and technology and health, which
have the potential to generate employment opportunities. The next round of the
Joint Commission will be hosted in Islamabad.
The developments in Afghanistan are already causing a significant shift in the
geopolitics of South Asia. Various governments are debating on how to respond
to the Taliban and argue that the regime should be judged by actions not words.
The South African Government has taken note of the unfolding situation in
Afghanistan and has expressed particular concern for the plight of thousands of
displaced Afghanis seeking safety and security amid the deepening crisis, as well as
the resultant erosion of the rights of women and other marginalised communities
within Afghan society.
South Africa considers Bangladesh to be an important growth market in South
Asia and is prioritising the development of business links and cooperation aimed
at improving the ease of doing business. Accordingly, South Africa intensified its
cooperation with Bangladesh during the period under review both as Chair of and
through an exchange of high–level visits.
Deputy Minister Mashego–Dlamini undertook a Working Visit to Bangladesh from
21 to 25 November 2022, while the Bangladeshi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs,
Mr Shahriar Alam, visited South Africa from 1 to 6 February 2023. The Minister of
State for Foreign Affairs inaugurated the “Made in Bangladesh” Exhibition at the
Sheraton Hotel in Pretoria on 2 February 2023 and had a bilateral engagement with
Deputy Minister Mashego–Dlamini on 3 February 2023. The delegation included
representatives from the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce
and Industry for engagement with the South African Chamber of Commerce and
Industry to promote business–to–business links.
The Sri Lankan Foreign Minister, Mr Ali Sabry, led a delegation from Sri Lanka on a
study visit to South Africa from 21 to 26 March 2023 to learn from South Africa’s
Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s process. This is done within the context of
Sri Lanka’s efforts to deal with the legacy of a brutal 30–year long civil war and is a
continuation of the support South Africa provided towards national reconciliation
and nation–building under the auspices of South African Initiative in Sri Lanka.
Kazakhstan, an important partner in Central Asia, and South Africa celebrated 30
years of diplomatic relations during this reporting period. The Seventh Round of
Bilateral Political Consultations with Kazakhstan, co–chaired at the level of Deputy
Foreign Minister, is scheduled to take place in Astana from 7 to 9 June 2023.
China
During the 2022/23 financial year, bilateral relations between South Africa and China
continued to grow, even though exchanges in–person were severely hampered
at the official, commercial and technical cooperation levels by the resurgence of
the COVID–19 pandemic in China and the country’s subsequent introduction of
stricter measures to counter the outbreak. However, China remained South Africa’s
largest trading partner globally last year (total volume of trade of R614 billion from
R544 billion in 2021, with South Africa’s trade deficit increasing) and South Africa
remained China’s number one trading partner in Africa.
South Africa and China pursued their comprehensive, strategic partnership at all
levels and at the celebration of the Chinese New Year in February 2023, the two
countries placed special emphasis on commemorating 25 years of diplomatic
relations, since ties were established on 1 January 1998. All further bilateral events
throughout 2023 intend to mark this milestone.

68
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Of special significance during the past year was that in October 2022, President
XI Jinping secured an unprecedented third term as General–Secretary of the
Communist Party of China, while in December 2022, President Ramaphosa was
re–elected as leader of the governing African National Congress, with Deputy
President Paul Mashatile as deputy party leader. During the Chinese Government’s
Legislative Session in March 2023, the National People’s Congress (NPC) formed
a new government. The NPC reaffirmed President Xi, while Mr Han Zheng was
appointed as Vice–President and Mr Li Qiang was appointed as Premier of the
State Council.
During the meeting between President Ramaphosa and President Xi on the sidelines
of the G20 meeting in Bali, Indonesia, in November 2022, the two leaders reiterated
their commitment towards strengthening the strategic partnership between our
two countries and to continue working together on regional and multilateral
cooperation. Following the lifting of all COVID–19 restrictions, a successful People–
to–People Exchange Mechanism meeting was held in Cape Town on 16 February
2023, preceded by a courtesy call on President Ramaphosa by visiting Vice Premier
of the State Council, Madame Sun Chunlan.
From 25 to 27 February 2023, the Mosi II naval exercise was held off the South
African Indian Ocean coast near Richards Bay, KwaZulu–Natal. The Mosi II was a
scheduled joint naval exercise between South Africa and two of its global partners,
China and Russia, like those with navies from other partner countries.
Regarding multilateral cooperation, South Africa and China have further deepened
cooperation in fora such as BRICS, the Forum on China–Africa Cooperation (FOCAC),
G20 and UN. South Africa also took over from China as Chair of BRICS in January
2023. Also, South Africa has noted that China had introduced several new global
diplomatic initiatives, such as the Global Development Initiative; Global Security
Initiative; Global Civilisation Initiative; as well as the International Organisation for
Mediation.
North East Asia and Oceania (NEAO)
South Africa’s well–established bilateral relations with the NEAO region (Japan, the
Republic of Korea [ROK], the Democratic Republic of Korea [DPRK] and Oceania
i.e., Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands) remain strong. This is evidenced
through continued technical cooperation, skills development and ongoing
investments into the South African economy, specifically by major economies such
as Japan and the ROK.
In terms of structured bilateral mechanisms, (the platform that is used to manage
and review the status of bilateral relations between South Africa and relevant
countries), the following meetings were held:
 » Senior Officials’ Meeting South Africa–New Zealand, 18 May 2022
 » South Africa–ROK Joint Commission for Cooperation, 11 October 2022
 » 13th South Africa–Japan Partnership Forum, 13 October 2022
 » Senior Officials’ Meeting South Africa–Australia, 28 March 2023.
South Africa’s combined total trade with these countries currently stands at
around R285 billion. Significantly, 2022 saw increased and positive trade balances
with Japan of R93 billion (total trade of R185 billion) and in the case of the ROK, of
R25 billion (total trade of R63 billion), a trade balance of R6 billion in favour of
Australia (total trade of R34 billion) and New Zealand of R8 million (total trade of
R3 billion) (Source: South African Revenue Service).
Japan remains a major investor in the South African economy, with a presence of
around 273 Japanese companies sustaining over 200 000 local job opportunities.
New investments in the South African economy and especially the latest investments
by Japan, which include R4,28 billion by Toyota; R3,2 billion by Nissan; and
R1.2 billion by Isuzu (other new investments were made by, among others, Sumitomo
Rubber Industries, Komatsu, Kansai Paint, NEC, Lixel, Nomura Investment and
Tokyo Marine).

69ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
New investments from Toyota South Africa Motors (TSAM) include the production
of the Corolla Cross hybrid model – the first hybrid model to be produced locally.
At the launch of the model, President Ramaphosa said it was an important step in
transforming the automotive business into the green industry. Isuzu SA Motors has
also confirmed its latest investment into its next generation “bakkie” programme in
South Africa. The first phase of NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Co Ltd) was
also announced.
The ROK is also invested in several sectors of the South African economy, among
others, Hyundai, commercial vehicles (Johannesburg); LG and Samsung, electronics
(Durban); KC Cottrell, paper pulp (Ngodwana), Jangwoo (machinery), etc.
South Africa continues to encourage and engage these two countries to play
positive roles in Africa’s development through the Tokyo International Conference
on African Development (TICAD) and the Africa–Korea Forum.
An MoU on Diplomatic Consultation was signed on 25 January 2022 with the DPRK,
which is a further commitment in pursuit of South Africa’s independent and non–
aligned foreign policy.
Middle East
South Africa’s foreign policy in the Middle East includes the strengthening of ties with
the Arab World in order to demonstrate South Africa’s even–handed policy vis–à–
vis the region, support for the peace process, the peaceful resolution of conflicts
and attempts to find areas of involvement, which will be mutually beneficial. In
this regard, South Africa has increased its frequency of engagement with countries
from the region, especially during the visit of Deputy Minister Mashego–Dlamini to
Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria from 20 to 26 August 2022.
The strategic objectives of the Working Visit to Jordan, Lebanon and Syria were
in the main aimed at strengthening South Africa’s bilateral political and economic
relations with these countries. Notably, the Deputy Minister presented to the
ministers of foreign affairs of Jordan and Lebanon, the signed MoUs on Bilateral
Consultations. These MoUs were negotiated with Jordan, Lebanon and Syria in
2019, albeit the signing was delayed due to the advent of the COVID–19 pandemic.
It is envisaged that the implementation of these MoUs will lay the foundations for
enhanced political and economic cooperation. These engagements are also part
of the process of expanding our legal frameworks of closer collaboration with
countries such as the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the Syrian Arab Republic and
Lebanon.
It is important for South Africa to have a stable Middle East with stable governments
in the region. In this regard, South Africa also provided a contribution to the
amount of R5 million through the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
earmarked for Syria in response to the humanitarian crisis following the devastating
earthquake that hit Syria on 6 February 2023. The Republic of South Africa is also
exploring other avenues to assist with the medium– to long–term rebuilding of
Syria.
A stable and developed Levant region, with the assistance of South Africa, will
ensure cordial relations in the Middle East and more opportunities for broader
international markets for South African goods.
Minister Pandor met with her Palestinian counterpart, Dr Riad Malki, in July 2022,
on the sidelines of the State of Palestine’s Second Conference of Ambassadors to
the African continent. The ministers agreed that like–minded countries should be
identified and approached to create a “Friends of the Middle East Peace Process”,
to provide impetus to South Africa’s efforts to highlight the Palestinian question.
The key outcomes of the bilateral meeting included:
 » formulation of practical strategies towards taking up the Palestinian cause
to the International Criminal Court and International Court of Justice, led by
Palestine, to declare Israel as an apartheid state
 » mobilise civil society both in Palestine and internationally
 » mobilising civil society both in Palestine and internationally to support the
Palestinian cause

70
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
 » South Africa also used the opportunity to reaffirm its long–term and
principled support for the Palestinian people and commitment to support
initiatives aimed at refocussing the international agenda on Palestine and
the Middle East Peace Process (MEPP)
DIRCO Director–General, Mr Zane Dangor, visited Palestine from 21 to 24 January
2023. The main objective of the visit to Palestine was to:
 » participate in the Second Session of the Political Consultations between
Palestine and South Africa
 » reaffirm South Africa’s commitment to the Palestinian cause, domestically
and globally
 » review South Africa’s initiatives and strengthen bilateral political and economic
relations, discussions on coordination of efforts aimed at the establishment
of the State of Palestine based on UN resolutions and international law and
strategies for galvanising support in the international community
 » exchange views on recent political developments in Africa and the Middle
East.
The South African delegation used the opportunity to engage with various
interlocutors in Palestine and Israel prior to and after the Second Session of
the Political Consultations. Meetings with the various interlocutors on the Israel/
Palestine issue were held. The interactions provided an invaluable opportunity to
directly engage, ascertain the positions and agree on the strategies to be pursued
in solidarity with the people of Palestine.
The President of the State of Palestine is expected to undertake a State Visit to
South Africa in 2024. It is expected that the State Visit will be preceded by the
Inaugural Session of the Joint Commission of Cooperation (JCC) at Ministerial level.
South Africa has continued to leverage its engagement with the Middle East region
through structured bilateral mechanisms during 2022/23. There were also high–
level incoming and outgoing visits to both the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and
Qatar by ministers to pursue important bilateral projects.
Countries in the Gulf region have become critical contributors to the implementation
of the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan through major new investments
in South Africa in fields such as energy, agriculture, transport logistics, etc.
Various high–level visits, including the visit by President Ramaphosa to the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia from 15 to 16 October 2022, have served as a catalyst to increase
investment as well as trade and economic linkages with major economic powers
in the region. The State Visit had an economic focus, which was supported by the
South African business delegation of 102 delegates who accompanied the President
to engage in business–to–business interactions with the Saudi private sector,
representing 78 companies across sectors such as agro–processing, defence,
manufacturing, mining and services. The Chairperson, Dr Stavros Nicolaou, and
members of the South African Chapter of the Joint Business Council also formed
part of the delegation.
During the Saudi–South Africa Investment Forum, various business–to–business
agreements and MoUs were signed amounting to approximately US$15 billion.
President Ramaphosa also extended an invitation to Saudi businesses to participate
in the next South Africa Investment Conference in 2023. On a government level, 15
intergovernmental agreements and MoUs were signed in the areas of investment
promotion, transport, ICT, social development, health and agriculture.
Bilateral trade between South Africa and countries of the Middle East region
reached a new record level of activity in 2022 with South Africa’s total exports to
the region amounting to R69,227,167,285 and South African imports from the
region reaching R252,125,463,740. The largest trading partners of South Africa in
the region in 2022 were the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Bahrain and Kuwait.
Minister Pandor hosted the inaugural meeting of the Ministerial Committee on the
Efficient Management of the Annual Hajj and Umrah Pilgrimages on 10 February
2023 in Cape Town. The mandate and role of the Ministerial Committee is to
provide strategic direction to support the efficient management of the annual
Hajj and Umrah pilgrimages and to ensure that the South African pilgrims enjoy
a well–organised pilgrimage by an appropriate system under the auspices of the
relevant Ministry of Hajj and Umrah in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Ministerial
Committee was chaired by Ambassador Ebrahim Rasool and members included

71ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Ms Fatima Chohan, Professor Mathole Motshekga, Professor Anil Sooklal,
Ambassador Ashraf Suliman and Ms Zeenat Adam.
Various countries in the region attended the South African Investment Conference
in 2022. According to the dtic, a total of 30 companies from the UAE invested in
South Africa between January 2003 and December 2020. These investments were
mostly in the agro–processing and aquaculture fields to address food security;
oil and gas maintenance/services; oil refinery; light metal fabrication; tourism
infrastructure; and the green economy. A recent noticeable trend is investment
in renewable energy as evidenced by the US$180–million investment by AMEA
Power in the Doornhoek solar plant in Mpumalanga. Investment pledges sourced
as part of the President’s investment initiative and the Investment Summit, held in
March 2022, included: Imperial and DP World’s R2,1 billion Greenfield & Brownfield
investment in logistics across the Group UAE Gauteng Infrastructure, property
and logistics; and Velocity Ventures’ R470 million Aluminium Alloy, Aluminium ROD
and Mini Steel Plant (Gauteng). According to the dtic, the estimated value of South
African investments in the UAE from 2003 to 2020 totalled R10 billion. Various South
African companies have invested in the UAE in sectors such as retail, the hospitality
industry, financial and banking services, ICT, defence, energy, construction, etc.
Regional organisations
South Africa’s participation in BRICS continues to emphasise concrete cooperation
that contributes both directly and indirectly to the priorities of a better South Africa,
a better Africa and a better world. The main objectives of South Africa’s engagement
in BRICS are to enhance the future growth and development of South Africa and
to strengthen intra–BRICS relations and mutually beneficial cooperation across the
three pillars of BRICS cooperation.
Cooperation across a wide range of sectors continues to grow among BRICS
partners, both collectively and individually. South Africa’s participation in BRICS
continues to provide tangible benefits for South Africans through science,
technology, innovation, health and education cooperation, as well as through BRICS
financing for infrastructure development, capacity–building, research, educational
and skilling opportunities. For example, the virtual BRICS Vaccine Research and
Development Centre was launched on 22 March 2022. The operationalisation
of the centre delivers on the agreement made during the Johannesburg Summit
under South Africa’s Chairship of BRICS in 2018.
Our BRICS partners and institutions are critical to our post–COVID–19 economic
recovery plans through trade, investment and tourism cooperation. To date, the
BRICS New Development Bank (NDB) has approved 12 projects for South Africa,
valued at approximately US$5.4 billion, which aim to improve our Service-delivery
in critical areas as well as supporting government’s efforts to help the most
vulnerable sectors of society. In 2021, South Africa welcomed the expansion of the
NDB to include Bangladesh, Egypt, Uruguay and the UAE.
In 2023, South Africa is chairing BRICS for the third time since we joined in 2010,
under the theme: BRICS and Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive Multilateralism. At the centre of the theme is
the importance of global governance reform as a founding value of BRICS as we
share a focus on strengthening and reforming international governance to be more
inclusive, representative and democratic with meaningful and greater participation
of developing countries of the global South, especially Africa. As such, South Africa’s
strategic engagement in the BRICS partnership continues to provide a key platform
for the achievement of our National Interest and foreign policy objectives.
The Ninth BRICS Deputy Ministers and Special Envoys on MENA, which was held
in Cape Town on 26 April 2023, agreed to a joint statement covering different
geopolitical dynamics in the MENA region. The MENA statement was further
endorsed by the joint communiqué of the BRICS Ministers of Foreign Affairs and
International Relations during their meeting scheduled for 1 to 2 June 2023, and
subsequently find resonance in the Summit Declaration to be adopted by heads
of states when President Ramaphosa hosts the XV BRICS Summit from 22 to 24
August 2023.
India–Brazil–South Africa (IBSA) Dialogue Forum
South Africa continues to utilise its membership of IBSA to safeguard and advance
mutual political, economic, social interests, common positions of countries and
groupings of the developing South. These address historical inequalities, imbalances
in the pursuit of a just and equitable developmental agenda and global order.

72
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
South Africa also utilises the IBSA Facility for Poverty and Hunger Alleviation (IBSA
Fund) to extend its solidarity with countries of the global South to advance the UN
SDGs, specifically in Africa, the centrepiece of our foreign policy.
During the period under review, South Africa proposed and supported hunger
and poverty alleviation projects utilising the IBSA Fund through the UN Office for
South–South Cooperation. These, among others, are in Mozambique (Resilient
Multifunctional Water Supply Systems for Machubo Administrative Post, Marracuene
District); The Gambia (Enhanced Vegetable Production and Processing Project for
the Rural Youth and Women in The Gambia); Senegal (Restoration and Monitoring
of Degraded Land in the Groundnut Basin of the Saloum Delta); and Uganda
(Karamoja Greenbelt’s Women–led Large–scale Farming of Cereals, Legumes and
Oilseed).
In 2023, Brazil assumed IBSA Chairship after taking over from India. Brazil has
outlined some of its focus areas, which are, among others, high–level coordination
policy in multilateral fora in the G20 troika context; global governance reform,
including the UN and its UNSC reform; conflict resolution; sustainable development,
with emphasis on the 2030 Agenda, South–South and South–North Cooperation;
and discussions on the envisioned Summit of the Future.
Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA)
The geostrategic importance of the Indian Ocean region is a valuable resource
with great potential for innovation, job creation and sustainable socio–economic
development in which the IORA has developed as the most important regional
organisation. South Africa utilises IORA as a platform to maximise benefits to the
country, especially in the context of the various domestic economic priorities.
The endeavours of IORA through its working groups have achieved substantial
contributions to skills enhancement, technology transfer and technological and
industrial simulations. IORA has also made it possible to work towards strategic
localisation, reindustrialisation and export promotion, tourism recovery and
growth, gender equality, economic inclusion of women and youth, as well as energy
security.
Working jointly and hard at creating a region of peace means together we can
achieve operational optimisation within the region and energy–efficient technology
acquisition, leading to a conducive environment that could ensure the continued
sustainable development of the IORA region. South Africa will play a pivotal role
in the review of the IORA, which will take place later in June 2023 when IORA and
the IORA dialogue partners engage in a High–Level Strategic Dialogue to reflect on
IORA’s future and organisational fitness for the work and challenges ahead of it.
Operation Phakisa
South Africa continues to harness and unlock the economic potential of her oceans
through Operation Phakisa, which has focussed on six priority growth areas, which
could significantly contribute to GDP growth and job creation.
The two enablers in this regard have been identified as Skills and Capacity–Building
and Research, Technology and Innovation. These are meant to support the six
work streams, namely: Marine Transport and Manufacturing, Offshore Oil and
Gas Exploration, Aquaculture, Marine Protection Services and Ocean Governance,
Small Harbours and Coastal and Marine Tourism.
Through these work streams, South Africa continues to seek opportunities in
the international arena and interacts with relevant stakeholders to advance and
achieve the aspirations of Operation Phakisa.

73ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Leveraged
bilateral, political
economic and
social relations
to achieve the
objectives of
the NDP and the
MTSF priorities
Strengthen bilateral
relations towards:
 » contributing to the
achievement of the
NDP
 » alleviating triple
challenges
(inequality, poverty,
and unemployment)
 » achieving the MTSF
priorities
 » promoting National
Interest
 » promoting regional
and continental
priorities
 » garnering support
on multilateral
issues of mutual
interest
Number of
regional political
reports, including
the outcomes of
structured bilateral
mechanisms and high–
level visits aligned to
achievement of the
NDP and MTSF
Twelve regional reports on
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanism and
high–level visits are aligned
to achievement of the NDP
and MTSF as identified in the
country strategies
The focus of South Africa’s
bilateral relations mandate,
namely, to enhance relations
with the global community,
with the further intention to
build a better South Africa,
a better Africa and a better
world, has not changed.
However, the pandemic
has compelled the use of
new and innovative ways to
achieve South Africa’s pre–
determined objectives
Bilateral engagements
were utilised to discuss the
following, among others:
 » the support for
peacekeeping and conflict–
resolution initiatives
 » reaffirm the growing
strategic partnership/s
and good bilateral political,
economic and social
relations
 » bilateral, multilateral,
diplomatic and trade and
economic issues
Twelve regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high–level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
MTSF
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
political engagements with
countries in the region took
place against the backdrop
of political and economic
developments on the
continent and the impact of
the COVID–19 pandemic
As the year progressed, and
COVID restrictions lifted, high–
level engagements and foreign
office consultations (FOC) took
place against the backdrop
of improved global economic
activity since the rise of
COVID–19 infections
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high–level
visits aligned to
achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Twelve regional political reports,
including the outcomes of
structured bilateral mechanisms
and high–level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
MTSF submitted
Africa:
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
political engagements with
countries in the region took
place against the backdrop
of political and economic
developments on the continent
and focussed on:
 » bilateral cooperation in the
various sectors as well as
new areas of cooperation,
namely: agriculture, energy,
food processing, ecosystem
protection and tourism
 » regular convening of the
mechanisms
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena on issues
of mutual concern
 » civic and immigration matters
 » COVID–19 vaccine
 » bilateral cooperation in
various sectors, including
education, the strengthening
of economic ties and
employment creation

74
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » preparations for
Presidential and Ministerial
visits and bilateral Political
Consultations during 2021
 » increasing the frequency
of political and diplomatic
consultations at different
levels
 » sector and working group
engagements to prepare
for the structured bilateral
mechanisms
 » strengthening bilateral
cooperation in the fields
of agriculture and health,
particularly with regard to
the COVID–19 pandemic,
regional and global politics,
trade issues and areas of
potential cooperation
 » strengthening bilateral
relations through
existing SBMs and the
establishment of new
SBMs
The convening of
more frequent Political
Consultations saw countries
working together in building
partnerships that would
enhance political and
economic relations and
strengthen and deepen
bilateral relations and
cooperation in the fields
of agriculture, health
(particularly dealing with the
COVID–19 pandemic), science
and technology, regional,
continental and global politics
and peace, security and the
elimination of gender–based
violence
The focus of bilateral relations
was also on:
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena on issues
of mutual concern
 » the finalisation of
outstanding MoUs and
agreements
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena
on issues of mutual
concern, including wildlife
conservation, biodiversity
conservation and the
management thereof
 » high–level discussions on
regional, continental and
global matters of mutual
concern including the
Tripartite Free Trade Area
with stakeholders on the
continent to establish strong
relations, being mindful of
the sovereignty of individual
countries on the African
continent and in line with the
AU principles and the rule
of law
Americas and Europe:
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
other political engagements
with countries in the region
took place against the backdrop
of political and economic
developments and multilateral
engagements.
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
other political engagements,
with countries in the region
focussed on:
 » the convening of a peaceful
resolution of the escalating
conflict between the Russian
Federation and Ukraine,
status of bilateral relations
between the two countries,
and overview of South Africa’s
economic priorities and the
proposed bilateral Trade and
Investment Council

75ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The department utilised
the bilateral engagements
to contribute to the
achievement of South Africa’s
domestic priorities, thus
contributing to a better South
Africa:
 » reviewed sectoral
cooperation in key areas
that are aligned to South
Africa’s domestic interests
 » secured a commitment
for enhanced support in
the areas aligned to South
Africa’s domestic interests
 » exchanges also focussed
on education, innovation,
sustainable economic
development and
the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (4IR)
 » reviewed sectoral
cooperation in key
areas that are aligned to
South Africa’s domestic
interests, namely: health,
education, energy, trade
and investment, safety and
security
 » secured a commitment for
enhanced support in the
areas of education, health,
scientific research, energy
and empowerment of
women
 » the convening of
outstanding structured
bilateral mechanisms
 » bilateral engagements
to discuss political and
civil tensions in various
countries on the continent,
South Africa’s facilitation
roles and responsibilities,
security and humanitarian
issues, elections, peace
and stability concerns and
negotiations, the delivery of
COVID–19 vaccine doses,
the impasse regarding
the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam (GERD)
negotiations, including
migration issues on the
continent, discussions on
the establishment and/
or scheduling of BNCs,
including the relaxation of
patent requirements, which
will enable the continent
to manufacture 100
million doses of vaccine as
estimated to be required
for use on the African
continent
 » Bilaterals between the US
and South Africa focussed
on the importance of the
bilateral partnership and US
support for South Africa’s
development priorities; trade
and investment relations,
including the African Growth
and Opportunity Act, energy,
climate change and support
for South Africa’s Just
Transition; the Russia-Ukraine
conflict; food security; and
the need for reform of the
UN Security Council
 » meetings held on the side–
lines of the G20 Summit
focussed on the status
of bilateral relations and
developments in the SADC
region and the submission
of aides memoire for South
Africa’s candidacies to
multilateral organisations
 » review of diplomatic
political relations, as well
as cooperation in different
sectors of the economy
 » enhanced bilateral and
multilateral cooperation
 » commitment to strengthen
cooperation and
collaboration on regional and
multilateral issues in areas of
common interests

76
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » agro–processing,
chemicals, infrastructure
and ICT
 » strengthening bilateral
cooperation in the fields
of agriculture, culture,
defence, gender and
health
 » cooperation in
infrastructure
development in South
Africa (Mzimvubu River
Water Project, Small
Harbour Project)
South Africa is constantly
seeking to strengthen
regional, continental and
international engagement,
while being cognisant of
the global environment
and trends. Therefore,
multilateralism remained
an important area of South
Africa’s bilateral discussions
as outlined below:
 » the handing over of the
Chairship of the AU to the
DRC, hosting of the BNC
and the Grand Inga Hydro
Project
 » economic systems to assist
the continent’s economic
recovery
 » promote bilateral ties and
closer cooperation in all
multilateral fora
The department utilised
bilateral engagements with
countries of the North to
contribute to the achievement
of South Africa’s domestic
priorities, thus contributing to
a better South Africa by:
 » reaffirming close and
long–standing relations
and a commitment to
further deepening political
and economic relations,
addressing the need for
strengthened partnerships
based on solidarity and
cooperation, which in turn
is based on development
priorities set by the AU
(in particular Agenda
2063); reaffirming South
Africa’s position of peaceful
resolution of conflicts and
transitional justice within
the ambit of international
law; the need to continue
to support humanitarian
efforts and for the
important role of regional
institutions and regional
peace–making initiatives
 » the US Treasury Secretary, Ms
Janet Yellen’s visit in January
focussed on meeting with
the President and various
ministers, private companies,
and philanthropists, including
the South African Reserve
Bank. Her visit focussed
on attracting funding for
climate change projects and
touring US–funded facilities in
Gauteng
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena on
issues of mutual concern,
including a celebration of
long–standing diplomatic
ties with countries in the
region, including discussions
on study tours to Canada
and the 14th Annual
Consultations (AC) between
South Africa and Canada
 » active cooperation and
ongoing efforts to elevate
trade relations to the same
level as our excellent political
relations as well as the BRICS
Chairship 2023 were the
main objectives of the 17th
JCM with Cuba
 » further high–level meetings
were held to enhance
bilateral and multilateral
cooperation, with a
determined commitment to
strengthening cooperation
and collaboration in regional
and multilateral arenas of
common interests

77ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » election of the new
Secretary–General of IORA
2021–2023
 » the EU has committed to
secure financial support
for partner countries
to the amount of €15.6
billion worldwide towards
an emergency response,
support to health and
innovation systems, and
mitigating social and
economic impacts. Africa
has been identified as a
key area of concern to the
EU, due to its geographical
proximity. To this end,
Africa has been allocated
€3.25 billion, aimed at
combatting the spread of
COVID–19
 » South Africa made
inputs into USAID’s new
regional strategy and
secured commitment for
greater government–to–
government channelling of
development funding
 » the protection of human
rights, as well as the
related cross–border
challenges faced as a
result of the COVID–19
pandemic
 » humanitarian, peace and
security issues
 » The Trade–Related Aspects
of Intellectual Property
Rights (TRIPS) waiver
initiative was spearheaded
by South Africa and
India at the World Trade
Organisation (WTO) to
assist with the localisation
of vaccines manufacturing,
personal protective
equipment and other
therapeutics to effectively
combat the COVID–19
pandemic
 » the affirmation of South
Africa’s position regarding
the condemnation of
vaccine nationalism and
advocating global access,
especially for the African
continent and developing
countries, as well as the
severe challenges faced
by African countries to
produce vaccines in their
countries
 » regional and national
priorities, as well as issues
to do with women’s
economic empowerment,
the status of collaborations
that form part of the broad
bilateral cooperation,
the importance of the
Human Rights Council
and the importance of the
elimination of all forms of
racism were discussed
 » in Western Europe, high–level
consultations were held
with Switzerland to take
stock of relations, identify
new areas of cooperation,
including views on peace and
security issues on the African
continent
 » ministers Pandor and
Dlamini Zuma attended the
inauguration of President
Lula da Silva of Brazil,
which is expected to have a
profound positive impact on
the good bilateral relations
and cooperation between
South Africa and Brazil going
forward
Asia Middle East:
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
other political engagements
with countries in the region
took place against the backdrop
of political and economic
developments and multilateral
engagements
The structured bilateral
mechanisms, high–level and
other political engagements,
with countries in the region
focussed on:
 » strengthened bilateral
relations
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena on issues
of mutual concern

78
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » collaboration on issues
of mutual interest, such
as sustaining peace
and security, climate
change, promoting
sustainable economic
growth, advancing gender
equality and strengthening
multilateralism
 » cooperation and support
to fight the COVID–19
pandemic
 » establishment of the
COVID–19 Emergency
Fund
 » continued exports
of medical supplies,
specifically paracetamol, to
South Africa
 » repatriation and
expatriation of nationals
 » visa extensions for
businesspeople
 » the importance of
supporting the World
Health Organisation (WHO)
to fulfil its role and function
 » purchasing of personal
protective equipment (PPE)
for health workers and
COVID–19 testing kits, as
well as ventilators
 » confirmation of South
Africa’s commitment to
addressing climate change,
in accordance with the UN
Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC)
and the Paris Agreement,
through the urgent
implementation of all pillars
of the UNFCCC
 » COP26 and the importance
of a balanced and just
approach, and avoiding
one–size–fits–all outcomes
 » bilateral cooperation to
expand to areas such as
parliamentary cooperation,
Antarctic cooperation,
sports, arts and culture
cooperation, as well as
the implementation of the
Science and Technology
Cooperation MoU and
the Mineral Resources
Cooperation MoU
 » South Africa’s representation
in Taipei; and Japanese
business investment in South
Africa
 » the advancement of multiple
areas of cooperation, in
particular as it pertains
to trade and investment;
science and technology; and
development cooperation
 » cooperation in the
multilateral arena on issues
of mutual concern, including
a celebration of long–
standing diplomatic ties with
countries in the region
 » resumption of trade and
investment consultations and
the stalled Agreement on
the Co–Production of Films
between South Africa and
Australia

79ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » key sectors of importance,
such as the development
of the fisheries and
aquaculture sectors,
expanding technical
cooperation through
the Nelson Mandela
Scholarship in astronomy,
fisheries and aquaculture,
forestry, astro–engineering,
astro–physics, bio–
engineering, vocational and
technical education, science
and technology research
and joint projects, mining
cooperation and business–
to–business engagement,
were discussed
 » cooperation on Women,
Peace and Security,
including training of women
mediators, Durban+20 and
the protection of human
rights defenders
 » cooperation on the circular
economy, energy transition,
the forestry sector, 4IR and
the digital economy, as well
as education and science
 » humanitarian and scientific
assistance, considering the
COVID–19 pandemic and
its economic impact in the
region
 » capacitation of the Africa
Centre for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC)

80
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
In terms of bilateral relations
with countries of the East and
Middle East, the emphasis fell
on honouring commitments
made at the G7 under
the UNFCCC and the call
for leadership within the
Commonwealth and IORA;
the finalisation of bilateral
agreements and MoUs in
defence, police service and
health; diversification of
trade and the identification
of new trade opportunities
for exploration; support
for Palestinian Statehood;
developments within the
AU and initiatives in the UN
context supported by South
Africa; preferential trade
agreements with SACU; and
the revival of structured
bilateral mechanisms
Identifying new areas of
cooperation and probable
strengthening of people–to–
people relations, particularly
in women’s organisations
and student exchange
programmes
Reassessment of pending
agreements, including the
visa exemption agreements
for diplomatic and official
passport holders by the
Department of Home Affairs

81ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Ongoing engagements
regarding the High–Speed Rail
Project (HSR) as one of the
projects that were approved
by Cabinet as part of the
National Transport Master
Plan (NATMAP)
Progress regarding the Small
Harbours Development
Project, which is part of an
MoU between South Africa
and China. In this regard, the
focus fell on the development
of small, medium and micro
enterprises (SMMEs)
High–level and structured
bilateral mechanism
engagements included
consultations regarding the
impact of the Russia–Ukraine
war on the global political
and economic climate, safety
issues during natural disasters
and the possibility of new
waves of COVID–19
Discussions on the possibility
of developing platforms such
as the G20 for developing
countries for post–COVID–19
economic development and
recovery

82
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
In terms of trade investment
with countries of the Middle
East and the East, the
focus fell on the following
investment initiatives:
 » investment aftercare with
expansion of existing
investment in South Africa
and follow–up on pledges
made at the South Africa
Investment Conference
 » engagements on possible
investment in technology
solutions
 » investment seminars on
opportunities in the ocean’s
economy
 » addressing concerns
regarding visas/permits,
the Automatic Identification
System and Broad–
Based Black Economic
Empowerment
 » on–site visits and virtual
engagements with
identified firms
 » MoU with Thailand to
assess the implementation
of on bilateral agricultural
relations
 » participation in economic
and trade conferences
 » identifying new trade
opportunities

83ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » engagements with domestic
stakeholders, such as
chambers of commerce and
provincial governments with
the objective of developing
an investment strategy in
broader sectors within the
region
 » investment and trade
promotion of the South
African Halal meat market
 » expansion of investment
into wine and spirits;
beauty products and oils;
fisheries; and jewellery
manufacturing industries
 » facilitation of a conducive
environment for enhanced
trade and investment in
South Africa’s healthcare,
pharmaceutical, energy and
agriculture sectors
 » province–to–province
investment engagements,
resulting in an investment
pledge of R208 million to
the Limpopo province
 » cooperative trade
investment in automotive,
pharmaceutical and
renewable energy
 » inspections of new areas
and ports for the possibility
of exporting live South
African beef, as well as
improved market access
for various South African
products

84
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » engagements between
missions and local
stakeholders regarding
the possibility of importing
South African ostrich and
other game meat
 » meetings with chambers
of commerce with the
objective of entering trade
partnerships in areas
of agriculture and food
processing, healthcare and
pharmaceutical, as well as
dairy and livestock
 » trade impediments and
opportunities for South
African food and beverages
to be exported through
South African supermarket
brands based abroad
 » participation of South
African agro–processing
companies in Southeast
Asia with the objective of
discovering new trends,
expanding business and
identifying new markets in
the region
 » local assistance with
expanding the South
African Halal market in
the region as a possible
economic driver

85ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » engagements with
stakeholders to discuss
possible opportunities in
telecommunications and
energy
 » Head Office and missions
in the region participated
in investment–promotion
activities during the
reporting period to
promote economic
cooperation and encourage
investments, new projects,
as well as address
challenges regarding
existing investments
EXPO 2020 Dubai where the
South Africa National Day was
celebrated followed by:
 » engagements with
participants in the
MultiChoice SMME
Accelerator Activation
Programme
 » a media town hall
engagement focussing on
trade and investment
 » a business dialogue at the
South Africa Pavilion to
increase the importation
of consumer goods from
South Africa
 » an engagement at the AU
Pavilion

86
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » a site visit to a South African
business entrepreneur who
benefitted directly from
Expo2020
The outcomes of the
aforementioned engagements
include:
 » showcasing South Africa’s
strategic importance and as
a globally relevant player
 » reinforcing South Africa’s
position as an attractive
and competitive business,
investment and tourism
destination
 » promoting South Africa’s
reputation as “open for
business”, and “investment
destination of choice” entry
point into the southern
African region and the
continent
 » providing context on the
AfCFTA
 » identified areas of possible
economic cooperation in
agriculture, defence, energy
and transport
 » exchange views on South
Africa’s economic and
political relations with the
United Arab Emirates (UAE)

87ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » consultations with
partner departments for
the purpose of possibly
unblocking impediments
and access to financial
pledges
 » opportunities offered in
countries of accreditation in
construction, infrastructure,
energy, technology, medical,
retail and manufacturing
 » challenges experienced in
international partnerships
in the banking sector
 » probable investment
opportunities in residential
and commercial real
estate development,
financial, healthcare, and
pharmaceutical services
 » increasing existing
investment in South African
beef and fruit juice
 » promotion of commercial
links and arms exports

88
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Increased
foreign direct
investment (FDI)
and contributed
to economic
growth in South
Africa
Contributed to
economic growth in
South Africa through
export and investment
promotion by:
 » exploring new
areas for trade and
investment, ranging
from primary,
secondary and
tertiary sectors
 » Nurturing and
expanding
existing trade and
investment
 » Establishing
business–to–
business relations
Number of quarterly
progress reports on
the regional trade and
investment initiatives
undertaken in support
of the one government
investment approach
Twelve regional investment
strategies and quarterly
progress reports
South Africa’s objective,
through the soliciting of
international investments,
is to contribute towards
supporting growth and
development within the
country, as well as the region.
These investments have,
among others, been in the
sectors of manufacturing,
retail, communications,
construction, finance and
tourism. Investment has
become an increasingly
important means of
strengthening economic
ties with various countries.
DIRCO, at both Head
Office and the missions,
has continued to explore
investment opportunities
for South Africa. The pursuit
of investment opportunities
continued against the
backdrop of the deteriorating
global economic situation
as a result of the COVID–19
pandemic and challenges
experienced by South African
companies operating on
the continent. Due to the
pandemic, most economies
are still recovering; therefore,
economic activity has not yet
returned to pre–COVID levels
Twelve progress reports
on the regional investment
strategies were submitted
Head Office and missions
in the region continued
to explore investment
opportunities for South Africa,
in line with the objectives of
the ERRP, which focusses on
priority interventions aimed at
restoring growth and creating
jobs
Investment from African
countries into South Africa
remains limited. There is,
however, huge potential in
the region for South African
investment across almost all
sectors. Missions assisted
South African companies
in identifying investment
opportunities in host
countries
Twelve quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken in
support of the
one government
investment
approach
Twelve quarterly progress
reports on the regional trade
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach were submitted
Head Office and missions in the
regions continued to explore
investment opportunities
for South Africa, in line with
the objectives of the ERRP,
which focusses on priority
interventions aimed at restoring
growth and creating jobs
Africa:
Trade and investment outreach
initiatives on the continent
focussed on:
 » meetings with domestic
stakeholders such as the
Department of Trade,
Industry and Competition
(the dtic) and the Department
of Mineral Resources and
Energy
 » host government ministries;
private companies
 » ongoing support to missions
to promote bilateral
investment
 » participation in the Eighth
Africa Forum of Investment
and Commerce in Algeria

89ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
DIRCO has, during the
reporting period, held
investment outreach
initiatives through meetings
with various institutions,
including government
departments, retail
companies and business fora.
These particularly focussed
on the following:
 » the need to explore
areas of cooperation in
the transport and urban
mobility sector
 » reaching out to South
African investors in host
countries
 » collaboration on
investment promotion,
facilitation and post–
investment support of
South African business
 » collaboration in investment
promotion with domestic
partners and South African
exporters
 » assessing the sectoral
opportunities
 » missions continue to play
a pivotal role in business
matching and assisting
South Africans who wish
to open up businesses
abroad
Investment discussions
focussed on the following
sectors:
 » transport; pharmaceutical
industry; mining and
energy; renewable energy;
ICT; automotive sector;
construction; petroleum
and energy; textiles;
aquaculture; infrastructure;
ports development
and infrastructure; real
estate; civil aviation;
hospitality industry;
telecommunications; wine;
fresh produce; finance;
small business and women;
aerospace; industrial
goods and spare parts;
oceans economy; chemical
production; supermarket
association; textile and
apparel; fisheries and
aquaculture; digital and
information technology;
agro–processing; live sheep,
goat, beef and ostrich meat;
armaments and defence;
medical equipment; health
tourism; and agriculture
Investment discussions
focussed on the following
sectors:
 » mining (oil, gold and
diamonds)
 » aquaculture
 » digital technology
 » agriculture
 » agro–processing (cotton,
Arabian gum, rice, sesame,
peanuts and livestock)
 » infrastructure development
(ICT and energy)
 » cosmetics
 » commerce
 » finance
 » insurance
 » wine

90
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » trade and investment
seminars were hosted and
participated in, with the
aim of introducing South
African products and
services into the market,
facilitating business–
to–business contact,
developing exports
markets for South African
products and services and
recruiting new FDI into the
country
 » various missions hosted
webinars and meetings
in an effort to cooperate
on products from South
Africa in areas such as
pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment, plastics and
chemicals
 » providing ongoing support
to missions to promote
bilateral investment in
countries of the region
Investment outreach initiatives
in Africa focussed on:
 » ongoing meetings with
domestic stakeholders,
such as the dtic; Agriculture,
Land Reform and Rural
Development (DALRRD);
Wesgro; the Industrial
Development Corporation;
Transnet; host government
ministries; private
companies; and ongoing
support to missions
to promote bilateral
investment
 » provision of support to
South African companies
operating in Africa. Even
though these were outward
investment enquiries, the
benefits to South Africa
include the future sourcing
of material and equipment
from South Africa should
the foreign investment
projects materialise
 » exchanging views on
cooperation and investment
opportunities between the
continent and South Africa
Americas and Europe:
During the reporting period,
Head Office and the missions
in the region continued to hold
virtual and in–person meetings,
webinars and engagements
with key sector stakeholders to
cover a wide range of priority
sectors for South African
investment, while exploring
new opportunities for South
Africa. As a result of the easing
of lockdown restrictions, official
visits could also be undertaken
Discussions took place against
the backdrop of the slow
economic recovery as a result
of the COVID–19 pandemic,
follow–up on investment
pledges and investors from the
2022 Presidential Investment
Conference and opportunities
of the AfCFTA
Investment outreach initiatives
focussed on:
 » The needs of South African
business entrepreneurs’
bilateral and investment
relations (local and
industrialisation strategies)
in steel, renewable energy
and the automotive sector,
as well as multilateral issues,
specifically South Africa’s
interests at the WTO. South
Africa’s interests discussed
included market access
issues

91ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
DIRCO positively contributed
to the third SAIC. Below is a
list of contributions that the
department has made, both
in South Africa and abroad,
to contribute towards this
initiative:
 » The ongoing spread of
the Coronavirus meant
that a large physical event
on the scale of previous
conferences was not viable
in 2020. The focus of the
conference therefore
shifted to “Investment in a
post–COVID Environment
– Consolidation and
Reconstruction”. The
conference, therefore, took
place in a largely virtual
format
 » Total investment
commitment for 2020 is
R109.6 billion, which brings
the total investment drive
commitment to R773.6
billion. 64.4% of the
target has been achieved.
The foreign investment
component is almost
49.4% of the total. The bulk
of the projects originate
from the private sector
 » A myriad of economic
diplomacy initiatives and
earnest endeavours to
implement the economic
diplomacy strategy and to
positively contribute to the
ERRP
 » Activities and gainful
engagements were
undertaken in support of
the ERRP’s aims to build a
sustainable, resilient and
inclusive economy with the
view to unleash its true
potential
 » Outlining key strategic
elements and tenets of the
economy and recognising the
importance of positioning the
country favourably within the
global economic landscape
that is rapidly transforming
and reconfiguring, were at
the forefront of discussions
held
 » Promotion of various
industries for investment that
include the meat Industry,
agribusiness and Business
Process Outsourcing (BPO)
 » Possibilities for increased
FDI into South Africa and
improved South African
value–added exports
 » Commitment to further
strengthen economic ties

92
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » collaboration on investment
promotion, facilitation and
post–investment support of
South African business such
as cooperation between
SAA and Kenya Airways
 » support for MTN with its
plans to introduce a fibre
optic service provider to
Zambia
 » collaboration in investment
promotion, facilitation and
post–investment support
of South African business.
Missions facilitated
participation of companies
at the Inter–Africa Trade
Fair, which was held in
Durban, South Africa, from
15 to 21 November 2021
Investment outreach initiatives
with countries of the North
focussed on:
 » Meetings, webinars and
engagements with key
sector stakeholders within
South Africa
 » Exploring initiatives
on resuscitating and
strengthening bilateral trade
and investment
 » Identifying key priorities
in strategic engagements
to advance South Africa’s
economic interests in Europe
and the Americas, including
the establishment of trilateral
partnerships in pursuit of
an investment–led strategy
in productive sectors and in
highlighting opportunities
provided by the AfCFTA

93ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
DIRCO’s role in investment
mobilisation included
identifying potential investors
for the third SAIC. Twenty–
three South Africa missions
and 14 foreign missions
accredited to South Africa
provided 755 names of
investors who were invited
Investment pledges are
monitored to ensure
implementation and to
address obstacles that
emerge in the investment
pipeline, through the relevant
South African national
departments and agencies
Projects that form part of
the Presidential Investment
drive and the investment–
promotion efforts are being
supported and monitored
 » Showcasing opportunities
that are available for
new investors, as well
as foreign investors in
South Africa. This included
cementing agreements
on future cooperation,
promoting trade visits
to South Africa and
promoting opportunities
in the pharmaceutical and
agricultural industry, ICT
investment opportunities
in South Africa, as well as
South Africa’s waste–to–
energy projects
 » Engagements with potential
investors in the renewable
energy sector to create
opportunities to attract
more foreign investments
into the country to
contribute to job creation
 » Meetings with current
investors and importers
from the region to South
Africa to discuss their
experiences of doing
business in South Africa
and to identify challenges
that might hamper future
investment growth
 » Exploring opportunities
for sectorial cooperation,
industrial development, FDI
and technology–sharing
Investment discussions
focussed on the following
sectors, among others:
 » manufacturing
 » agriculture and food security
 » skills development
 » education
 » technology
 » energy, renewable energy
and clean technology
 » mining
Investment outreach initiatives
focussed on:
 » Successful conclusion of
working groups on climate,
and on higher education,
science and innovation, which
determined the way forward
in these areas
 » During the Spanish State
visit to South Africa,
discussions focussed on the
need to increase bilateral
trade and the promotion
of a favourable climate for
private–sector investment.
Four MoUs were signed
and Spain announced
investments in the coming
five years to support Spanish
companies in renewable
energy and climate–related
projects in South Africa

94
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Below is a concise list of
inward investments, which
were committed to during
the reporting period:
 » Toyota South Africa Motors
(TSAM) announced in
July 2020 that, including
their original pledge, it
would invest an additional
R4.28 billion during 2020
in its local operations.
The lion’s share of the
investment, the originally
pledged R2.43 billion,
has been earmarked for
the establishment of a
new passenger vehicle
manufacturing unit at
the Prospection plant
in Durban, the work for
which would commence in
October 2021. Production
of the Corolla Quest
will continue and will
also include production
of a Toyota hybrid
synergy drive model. The
investment in the new
model will generate an
additional R2.85 billion
for the South African
economy per year, as well
as creating around 1 500
new jobs, of which 500 will
be at TSAM and 1 000 with
suppliers
 » Promotion of SMME
cooperation and exchange
of information and best
practices
 » Garnering information on
regional developments,
develop cordial relations
and expand networks
 » Interest in twinning with
South African cities and
provinces, which may
provide an opportunity
to cultivate mutually
beneficial relations,
cultural exchanges and
opportunities for skills
development
 » Incentives and
opportunities offered by the
South African Government
to those seeking to expand
their footprint on the
continent, using South
Africa as their headquarters
 » Suggestions to tap into the
reserve of retired skilled
professionals to come to
South Africa to train young
people in relevant sectors
and impart much–needed
skills
 » Discussions on training and
skills development in the
local government systems
and running of municipal
establishment
 » The Presidential State
Visit to the UK created a
new impetus in historically
deep and strong bilateral
relationships between South
Africa and the UK, elaborating
on existing cooperation
projects and identifying
new areas of cooperation.
The focus was on creating
opportunities for economic
recovery and job creation in
South Africa. Two agreements
were signed on Health and
Science and Innovation as
well as a Declaration of Intent
on Bilateral Cooperation
and Relations in Inclusive
Economic Growth
 » Follow–up on investment
pledges and investors from
the 2022 SAIC; and the
promotion of the AfCFTA
 » Economic diplomacy
initiatives and earnest
endeavours to implement the
economic diplomacy strategy
and to positively contribute
to the ERRP
 » Promotion of various
industries for investment
and BPO possibilities for
increased FDI into South
Africa and improved South
African value–added exports

95ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » Isuzu Motors confirmed
that it would be investing
R1.2 billion into their
next generation bakkie
programme in South Africa,
while an additional R2.8
billion will be generated
through the lifecycle of
the programme. This
milestone development
followed Isuzu’s take–
over of the company’s
light commercial vehicle
operations, as well as the
balance of shareholding
in the trucks business.
According to the company,
this decision saved 1 000
direct jobs, 4 000 jobs
through its dealer network
and many more through
its base of 430 suppliers in
South Africa. Isuzu wants
to grow the company’s
annual bakkie production
to 29 000 units per annum.
In a follow–up with Isuzu,
it was confirmed that this
project was on track and
that Isuzu still considered
South Africa as the hub for
its operations in Africa
 » Expansion of companies
in the region into Africa,
supporting the AfCFTA
 » Interest in investing more
in infrastructure projects in
South Africa
 » Investors interested in
medical science and
maritime issues, as well as
shipbuilding areas in South
Africa
 » Encouraging companies to
locate and invest in South
Africa, as that will allow
them to export to many
markets around the globe
where South Africa has
preferential market access
 » Possibility of the
establishment of an
automobile assembly
plant in South Africa, and
the signing of a twinning
agreement with a city/
town in South Africa for this
purpose
 » Promotion of the AfCFTA
and opportunities for
investment during
engagements with foreign
businesses
Asia and the Middle East:
Trade and investment outreach
initiatives on the continent
focussed on:
 » meetings with domestic
stakeholders such as the
dtic and the Department
of Mineral Resources and
Energy
 » host government ministries
 » private companies
 » ongoing support to missions
to promote bilateral
investment
 » participation in the Eighth
Africa Forum of Investment
and Commerce in Algeria
 » the pavilion award, opening
opportunities in terms of
potential buyers, distributors
and sellers and growing the
South African leather and
footwear market
 » the Fifth China International
Import Expo saw Aspen
Pharmaceuticals and
Standard Bank successfully
opening a stand to promote
South African products
such as alcohol–free
beverages, Rooibos tea, aloe
vera products, beer and
handcrafted items

96
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Missions abroad continued
to promote all the relevant
technologies associated
with the 4IR, such as block
chain, digital identity, Artificial
Intelligence, cloud computing,
robotics, 3D printing,
the Internet of Things,
and advanced wireless
technologies
Furthermore, through the
missions abroad, as well
as Head Office, business
meetings were facilitated
as part of the investment
outreach, to identify
investment opportunities in
the following sectors:
 » agriculture and agro–
processing
 » automotive manufacturing
 » Blue Economy
 » boatbuilding
 » engineering services
 » bio–chemical plants
 » consulting services
 » electronic devices such
as tablets, facilitating
quick decision–making
within a collaborative and
interactive manner
 » electronics
 » Partnering opportunities to
search for best practices
and technology transfers
to learn more about clean
technology, energy and
agro–processing sectors
within the State, which
could be of benefit to South
Africa
 » Exhibit and brand South
Africa and convey the
message that South Africa
is open for business and
offers attractive trade and
investment opportunities
for businesses
 » Interest in setting up
agreements with South
African universities in areas
of mutual interest and
expertise, such as mining
and forestry
 » Possible MoU to structure
cooperation in areas
such as education,
physics, economics and
epidemiology

97ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » energy – oil, gas and
renewable energy;
renewable energy – wind,
solar, hydro
 » financial services
 » fisheries
 » food security and
inclusive agriculture
sector development and
transformation
 » global value chain
integration, industrial
expansion and
diversification
 » health
 » ICT
 » software design and
telecommunications
 » local content,
manufacturing and skills
development
 » mining
 » pharmaceuticals
 » retail
 » tourism
 » transport – exploring
maritime opportunities;
construction of
infrastructure and logistic
infrastructure (road and
rail)
 » Discussion on critical issues
impacting the world in
general and, in particular,
the countries of the
developing South, to try and
determine whether natural
resources are a curse or a
blessing for resource–rich
nations; and how to turn
ideas into concrete actions
to address sustainable and
inclusive development
 » Promotion of various
industries for investment
that include agribusiness,
digital and information
technology, healthcare
technology, BPO and the
film industry
 » Possibilities for increased
FDI into South Africa and
improved South African
value–added exports
 » Commitment to further
strengthen economic ties
 » Exploring initiatives
on resuscitating and
strengthening bilateral
trade and investment

98
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Sectors of interest for the
East and Middle East regions
include:
 » agriculture
 » infrastructure investment
and
 » energy security
 » gender equality and
economic inclusion of
women and youth
 » strengthening agriculture
and food security
 » support the recovery and
growth of tourism
 » Green economy
interventions
Investment outreach initiatives
within this region focussed on:
 » promotion of South African
sweets and snacks products
 » the identified potential of
importing and exporting
Halal products
 » the strengthening of trade
partnerships
 » participation in the
launching of South African
apples and grapes trade
 » cooperation in the
strengthening of South
African exports to the
region

99ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » platinum promotion
 » in terms of manufacturing:
the promotion of catalytic
converters, defence
products and electronics
(also defence–related)
 » the exportation of live
South African cattle
 » food loss and wastage
during processing
 » improved methods of
increasing South African
citrus fruit access to the
region, such as pre–
clearance inspection of
shipments
 » facilitation of market access
for South African sweet
potato, avocado, grapefruit
and wine in the region
 » negotiations on potential
bilateral trade agreements
for the benefit of lowering
tariffs on agricultural
products, among others,
engagements between
missions and local
stakeholders regarding
the possibility of importing
South African ostrich and
other game meat

100
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » meetings with chambers
of commerce with the
objective of entering trade
partnerships in areas
of agriculture and food
processing, healthcare and
pharmaceutical, as well as
dairy and livestock
 » trade impediments and
opportunities for South
African food and beverages
to be exported through
South African supermarket
brands based abroad
 » participation of South
African agro–processing
companies in Southeast
Asia with the objective of
discovering new trends,
expanding business and
identifying new markets in
the region
 » engagements with
stakeholders to discuss
possible opportunities in
telecommunications and
energy
 » realising export
opportunities in the
automotive industry and
armaments
 » exploring opportunities
for industry specialists in
agricultural technologies,
equipment and related
products

101ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
networking and establishing
partnerships with key
decision–makers in the
agricultural sector and
agro–processing, and to gain
valuable insights on best
practices and solutions in this
sector

102
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Contributed to export
promotion
Number of quarterly
progress reports
on regional trade
strategies aligned with
the Integrated National
Export Strategy (INES)
1Twelve regional trade
strategies aligned with the
NES and quarterly progress
reports reflecting DIRCO’s
contribution to export
promotion
South Africa’s trade–
promotion activities through
the missions are aligned
to the priority products
identified by Trade and
Investment South Africa
(TISA) for promotion in the
various regions. Furthermore,
the regional trade–promotion
strategy highlights the
priority products and services
identified for promotion
within the specific countries
in the region. Growing trade
with the various regions
is critical to deliver on the
targets in Priority 7 and the
INES. South Africa’s global
trade makes a significant
contribution to addressing
the triple challenges of
poverty, unemployment and
inequality, which is a critical
priority area in domestic
policy
Twelve progress reports on
regional trade strategies
aligned with the Integrated
National Export Strategy (INES)
were submitted
The focus of the regional trade
strategy is aimed at promoting
the export of high value–
added products and services.
This has become even more
important with the conclusion
of the AfCFTA
This objective is aligned to
the broader political and
humanitarian investments
South Africa is making in
the region, in line with the
vision of promoting national
interests and values, the
rebirth of Africa and the
creation of a better world
The operationalisation of the
AfCFTA in January 2021 has
awakened African states to
the potential of a market of
1,3 billion people across 55
countries and a combined
GDP value of US$3.4 trillion.
Most countries are pursuing
anti–import policies while
conducting aggressive export–
promotion programmes
No target
1 This is the correct reflection after the discrepancies picked up during quarterly reporting were cleared.

103ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Missions play an important
role in the execution of
South Africa’s economic
diplomacy, by hosting trade
and investment seminars,
engaging chambers of
commerce and industry
and engaging companies to
promote South Africa as a
trade partner
The outbreak of the global
COVID–19 pandemic
has severely constrained
trade–promotion efforts.
International travel
restrictions and lockdown
measures introduced globally
limited the implementation
of planned trade–promotion
events and initiatives.
Despite this challenge, the
department continued to
facilitate meetings with
important role players with
the aim of discussing trade
relations and the introduction
of South African products
and services in the identified
markets, as well as facilitating
business–to–business contact
South Africa’s trade
promotion during the
reporting period was
influenced by restricted
market access, as a result
of rules and restrictions
imposed. In addition,
economic activity has not
yet returned to normal pre–
COVID levels
Various opportunities in trade
and service in relation to the
oil and gas sectors exist in
southern Africa, including
countries such as Angola.
Mozambique, Tanzania and
the DRC
Many of the activities that
constitute economic and
commercial diplomacy
are predominantly in the
sphere of the private sector
and, therefore, require
close cooperation between
government and business
to achieve national policy
objectives
Unfortunately, the COVID–19
pandemic in host countries
continued to have a negative
impact on missions’ ability to
promote bilateral trade, as
well as the private sector or
traders to do business with
their counterparts in the
region
Restrictions on travel,
closure of some government
departments or agencies in
host countries, low domestic
expenditure in host countries
and the cancellation of some
flights played a role in the
reduction of bilateral trade

104
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The impact of the pandemic
has highlighted the need for
greater global cooperation
in the areas of health,
technology and cyber–
security
Initiatives
Missions abroad continued
to host trade–promotion
events and seminars with
the aim of introducing
South African products
and services into the global
market, facilitating business–
to–business contact, and
developing export markets
for South African products
and services. The key focus
activities and areas are listed
below:
 » the promotion of South
African fruit
 » the development and
marketing of Rooibos, as
well as its innovative use
 » promotion of the export of
South African beef
 » engagement with the
relevant authorities in the
host country to secure
market access for South
African products
 » the promotion and
awareness of South African
wines through various
platforms, including
wine bloggers and wine
enthusiasts
Bilateral trade discussions and
initiatives in the region and
African continent focussed on:
 » Meetings with identified
companies in host
countries to discuss trade
opportunities
 » Meetings with relevant
government ministries in
host countries
 » Meetings with chambers
of commerce in
host countries. The
establishment and/or
strengthening of South
African chambers of
commerce for business
fora in support of South
African companies in
host countries will assist
to overcome challenges
regarding trade, investment,
tourism and general
relevant information
between South Africa and
countries in the region

105ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » the promotion of South
African engineering
services and engineering
solutions
 » the promotion of the
South African automotive
industry and water
purification technology
 » the promotion of South
Africa’s expertise in the
fields of pharmaceuticals,
agriculture, spa and
wellness products
 » the seeking of solutions
that contribute towards
the development of digital
learning in South Africa,
as well as development of
digital infrastructure in the
rural areas of South Africa
 » negotiations on various
impediments (tariff and
non–tariff barriers),
including challenges
related to market
access for South African
agricultural products
 » Meetings with South
African stakeholders,
such as the dtic, the
departments of ALRRD,
mineral resources and
energy, public enterprises
and transport; Chambers
of Commerce, Business
Unity SA (BUSA), Black
Business Council (BBC) and
Business Leadership South
Africa (BLSA) to discuss
opportunities to increase
trade with Africa
 » Meetings with domestic
stakeholders such as the
dtic, DALRRD, Wesgro,
Chambers of Commerce
and entities such as BUSA,
the BBC and BLSA, the Keys
and Markets company in
Mali, Meatmaster, Egyptian
ETrading Sharks LLC, and
DMRE, Distell, WASSA,
Standard Bank, Nedbank,
FNB and Business Eswatini

106
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Missions abroad further
engaged in trade discussions
and meetings with various
institutions, including
government departments,
retail companies and
business fora as part of the
initiative to advance the
export and import of goods
to and from South Africa, as
well as further identifying
areas of collaboration and
cooperation in the area of
trade. The increased trade
and investment opportunities
are a result of continuous
participation in business fora,
especially in the following
identified sectors, in addition
to those mentioned above:
 » banking
 » capacity–building in
fisheries
 » chemicals
 » consulting services
 » AfCFTA
 » debt and fiscal
 » foreign exchange
 » ICT sectors
 » infrastructure
development
 » investment regulations
The missions on the continent
engaged various stakeholders
on the following sectors:
 » agriculture and fresh
produce
 »  infrastructure
 » energy
 » trade and investment
facilitation
 » finance
 » mining
 » transport and logistics
infrastructure
 » port infrastructure
 » hospitality industry
 » telecommunications
 » wine
 » aviation
 » railway infrastructure
development
 » agriculture and agricultural
exports
 » exports of cosmetic
pharmaceuticals

107ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » manufacturing
 » mining
 » ocean’s economy
 » renewable energy: wind,
solar and hydro
 » retail
 » tourism/eco–tourism
 » transport and logistics
infrastructure: road and
rail
 » infrastructural and
investment projects (for
both the private and public
sector) in the management,
provision and/or
maintenance of rail, ports
and refurbishment thereof
 » inward investments into
South Africa’s infrastructural
pipeline projects (water
and/or energy)
 » dumping and trade
remedies
 » natural resources
beneficiation and
technology development
 » financial
 » retail
 » ICT
 » transport
 » mining
 » engagements with
Vodacom

108
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Contributed to growth
in the tourism sector
by networking and
showcasing South
Africa’s diverse tourism
industry
Number of regional
reports on the
tourism–promotion
events to promote
South Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination, thereby
contributing towards
growth in the tourism
sector in support of
the one government
tourist approach
Twelve regional tourism
reports on the tourism–
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, the
opportunities and barriers
The outbreak of the global
COVID–19 pandemic
has severely constrained
tourism–promotion efforts
during the reporting
period. International travel
restrictions and lockdown
measures introduced
throughout the global
community, contributed to
the limited implementation of
planned tourism–promotion
events and initiatives
Following the easing of
travel restrictions during
the second half of 2020,
South Africa, together with
its domestic partners, such
as South African Tourism,
as well as missions, sought
innovative ways to encourage
foreign nationals to consider
travelling to South Africa, in
an attempt to contribute to
increased economic growth,
which had been negatively
impacted by the COVID–19
pandemic
Twelve regional tourism
reports on the tourism–
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination were
submitted
In line with government’s
priorities to accelerate
transformation and create
jobs, tourism has been
identified as an enabler for
development
However, the COVID–19
pandemic and associated
travel restrictions had a
significant impact on the
South African tourism
industry. A critical factor in
bilateral tourism relations is
regional air and road linkages
The decline of South African
Airways’ (SAA) presence in the
region and the rise of cheaper
and efficient continental and
other competitors such as
Ethiopian Airways, Kenya
Airways, Turkish Airways,
Emirates Airways and Rwanda
Air have had a significantly
negative impact on travel
between countries in the
region and South Africa.
Passengers who previously
linked through OR Tambo
International Airport are
now travelling through Addis
Ababa, Nairobi, Istanbul, Dubai
and Kigali.
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on the tourism–
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support of the
one government
tourism
approach
Twelve regional tourism
reports on the tourism–
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourist
approach were submitted
Africa:
In line with government’s
priorities to accelerate
transformation and create jobs,
tourism has been identified as a
tool for development
Engagements were held with
the following stakeholders:
South African Tourism,
Shamal Travel and Tincowree,
Government of Chad, African
Parks Network (APN) and HBD
Group
Tourism discussions and
initiatives focussed on:
 » development of close
cooperation between the
Mission in Asmara and
Ethiopian Airlines to work
together in promoting
tourism inflow to South Africa

109ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
There are various domestic
constraints that further
exacerbated the negative
impact caused by the
pandemic, which include:
 » low domestic growth
rate and lack of a secure
electricity supply
 » negative perceptions
related to crime and safety
 » limiting visa regimes and
a lack of direct air links for
some of the markets
Tourism–promotion events
undertaken by South African
missions abroad included:
 » hosting of tourism–
promotion events
 » promotion of South Africa
as a tourist destination by
missions during meetings
with local tour operators,
agents, as well as on digital
platforms
 » discussions with
stakeholders, to develop a
visa application awareness
campaign and improve the
efficiency and turnaround
times for issuing visas
The possible cooperation
between SAA and Kenya
Airways to create a Pan’–
African airline, can be
beneficial to South Africa, the
region and the continent in
boosting tourism
Tourism discussions and
initiatives focussed on:
 » Tourism revival and
cooperation
 » Showcasing South Africa’s
diverse tourism industry
 » Engagements with tour
operators and airlines
 » Promoting South African
tourism in Africa and to
identify possible areas
of collaboration with the
relevant tourism–promotion
institutions in the countries
 » Participation in tourism
workshops, fairs and
roadshows. Due to
COVID–19 restrictions, the
hosting of and participation
in the aforementioned
were severely restricted.
Attendance and
participation were limited
to the DUBAI 2020 EXPO,
which was held in 2022
 » the inclusion of Côte d’Ivoire
in the Meeting of Africa,
Business Events Trade
Show, organised by South
African Tourism to identify
developments and challenges
faced between Eswatini and
South Africa within the field
of tourism
 » medical tourism has been
identified as a potential
tourism–promotion
opportunity in the Central
African region
 » the Joint Tourism Technical
Committee was launched
for the purposes of
implementing the MoU on
Cooperation in Tourism with
Ghana
 » missions in West Africa
entered into collaborative
efforts with Brand SA and
expatriate programmes to
promote South Africa as
tourism destination, while
advancing human rights
 » missions in East Africa
participated in events and
workshops with SAA, SA
Airlink and local tour agencies
to promote international
tourism to South Africa

110
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » strengthening
collaboration with
domestic tourism partners
 » leverage tourism
opportunities presented
by sports tournaments,
international events and
exhibitions
 » partnered with South
African Tourism towards
a consolidated approach
to alleviate barriers to
travel, business association
activation and investment
and market entry
facilitation, in line with the
South African Tourism
recovery plan
The above engagements
by missions highlight the
enormous potential that
exists to grow and expand
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination. Sectors
that were identified included
meetings, incentives,
conferences and exhibitions
(MICE), as well as the
opportunity to position South
Africa as a preferred wedding
and film destination
 » The various South African
provinces were profiled
during webinar promotional
events by highlighting
the unique offerings and
products each province has
to offer
 » Allaying fears associated
with travelling to a long–
haul destination during
the COVID–19 pandemic
and address any concerns
tourists may have
 » The resuscitation of flights
between South Africa
and various regions and
destinations
 » South Africa was promoted
as a safe and reliable
investment and tourist
destination
 » Areas of collaboration
within the tourism sector
were discussed such as
the unification of tourism
professionals across the
globe
 » The state of the tourism
sector in South Africa and
the plans in the public and
private sector to resuscitate
the sector, were discussed
Americas and Europe:
In line with government’s
priorities to accelerate
transformation and create
jobs, tourism and cultural
and economic diplomacy
are identified as enablers for
economic and sustainable
development in South Africa
The hosting of, and participation
in tourism-promotion events
through webinars and physical
engagements where:
 » growing business and
economic ties between South
Africa and the countries in
the region is helping to raise
the profile and awareness of
South Africa and increasing
tourism numbers, including
crowd–in investments to keep
the focus on South Africa
 » for missions in the Latin
American region, tourism is
more than holiday travel; it
is also about business and
trade travel and medical,
religious and niche tourism
such as birding
 » South Africa was promoted
as a safe and reliable
investment and tourist
destination

111ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Missions continued to engage
stakeholders with regard to
the visa issue and continued
to distribute information
and promotional material on
South Africa as a destination
of choice
Further engagements
focussed on:
 » visa regimes
 » the availability of direct
transport links
 » sector–level engagement
with tour operators and
major business generators
 » raising the profile of South
Africa as a preferred
destination
 » countering negative
perceptions
 » provision of information
about region–specific
packages by the South
African domestic tourism
industry
 » Distribution of key
messages to be used in
efforts to promote South
Africa as a destination of
choice
 » Participation in virtual
tourism–promotion
activities
 » Innovative ways of
promoting South Africa
as a preferred tourism
destination, utilising tourist
attractions such as art,
real–time communication
between foreign tourists
and local media outlets
during leisure activities,
as well as the release
of emotive reactions of
tourists while in South
Africa. The use of social
media platforms, such
as Facebook, to promote
South Africa’s tourism
highlights
 » Virtual launch of South
African Tourism roadshows
to connect regions–based
buyers and investors to
South African tourism
traders and businesses, in
particular SMEs
Participation in the Festuris
Tourism Expo was an
opportunity to introduce South
Africa’s tourism images, music,
culture, food and dress and was
intended to remind Brazilian
tourism agencies in São Paulo
that South Africa was open for
business and that all aspects
of South African tourism were
welcoming back the world back
to its shores
The IBTM World Business
Tourism Fair 2022 in Madrid,
the TravelXpo in Norway as well
as the Annual Holiday World
Trade Fair in Dublin allowed for
opportunities to be explored
between South African Tourism
and international stakeholders
Asia and the Middle East:
Missions, in collaboration with
the tourism sector, participated
in tourism–promotion activities
that included:
 » tourism seminars (Abu Dhabi
and Dubai)
 » “Grow with South Africa”
Business Seminar (Shanghai)
 » South African Tourism
and heritage showcase at
Chancery (Malaysia)

112
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned
Annual Target
2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » Reassurance of local
travel industries of South
Africa’s safety and health
precautions taken to ensure
public health and safety
 » Identification of
opportunities to maintain
brand awareness in
preparation for the
resumption of open global
travel
Opportunities for tourism
include:
 » Seeking economic or trade
opportunities in South
Africa, followed by tourism
focussed on urban areas
and shopping, sports
tourism, safari and wildlife
tourism, medical tourism,
cultural tourism; and
educational tourism
 » China – A seminar was held
in conjunction with Wines of
SA, South African Tourism
and Brand SA to promote
networking opportunities and
improve visibility of South
Africa in the host country
 » the mission in Singapore
facilitated the interface
between South African
Tourism and the organisers
of Drone Racing aimed at
promoting tourism in the
in identified South African
provinces
 » the 16th Tourism Exhibition
was held in Iran where the
mission networked with
various tourism operators
and agencies
 » the mission engaged with
tourism stakeholders in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
utilised the opportunity to
network and promote South
Africa as a preferred tourist
destination at the Jeddah
International Travel and
Tourism Expo 2023

113ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Regional Integration
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Increased
regional
integration
Contribution
towards regional
integration and the
implementation of
the Revised Regional
Indicative Strategic
Development Plan
(RISDP)
Number of bi–annual
assessment of South
Africa’s contribution
towards:
 » peace and stability
 » socio–economic
development
 » good governance
and democracy
 » the implementation
of the RISDP
Two assessment reports
reflecting South Africa’s
contribution towards:
 » peace, stability, good
governance and
democracy
 » As SADC Facilitator to
the Kingdom of Lesotho,
South Africa participated
in a peace mission to
address issues with regard
to peace, security and
political stability in the
Kingdom
 » The Ministerial Committee
of the Organ (MCO),
among others, reviewed
the political and security
situation in the region,
specifically in the Kingdom
of Lesotho, the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC)
and the Republic of
Mozambique
 » South Africa advised
on the urgent need to
ensure that the SADC–
sponsored Memorandum
of Understanding (MoU),
signed by all Basotho
stakeholders in 2018,
remains respected in both
letter and spirit and is
implemented accordingly
Two assessment reports of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
 » peace
 » stability
 » socio–economic
development
 » good governance
 » democracy
 » the implementation of the
RISDP were submitted
South Africa assumed the
Chairship of the SADC Organ
on Politics, Defence and
Security Cooperation during
the 41st Ordinary SADC
Summit of Heads of State and
Government (HoSG), which
was held from 17 to 18 August
2021, in Lilongwe, Malawi:
 » The 41st Summit of the
HoSG approved the
transformation of the
SADC Parliamentary Forum
into a SADC Regional
Parliament and its roadmap
as a consultative and a
deliberative body, with
no law–making or other
binding authority
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
 » peace and
stability
 » socio–economic
development
 » good
governance and
democracy
 » the
implementation
of the RISDP
Two assessment reports of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
 » peace and stability
 » socio–economic development
 » good governance and
democracy
 » the implementation of the
RISDP were submitted
SADC remains a foreign policy
priority for South Africa in her
efforts to achieve regional
development and integration
within the region
The 42nd Ordinary SADC
Summit of HoSG was held
in August in Kinshasa, DRC,
under the theme: Promoting
Industrialisation through Agro–
processing, Mineral Beneficiation
and Regional Value Chains for
Inclusive and Resilient Economic
Growth

114
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » South Africa became
the Incoming Chair of
the Organ on Politics,
Defence and Security
Cooperation. This presents
an opportunity for South
Africa to have a bigger
influence and make
a bigger contribution
towards regional policies
 » As incoming Chair of the
organ, South Africa will
continue to play a leading
role in facilitating peace
and security in the region
 » Continued its mediation
efforts towards the
national reforms process
in the Kingdom of
Lesotho through various
engagements and the
draft discussion document
on a Transitional Justice
Mechanism
 » Supported the finalisation
of a comprehensive
regional response in
support of the Republic of
Mozambique
 » Proposed the involvement
of SADC in the MONUSCO
exit strategy
 » The same summit also
approved the appointment
of Mr Elias Mpedi Magosi as
the new Executive Secretary
of SADC, replacing Dr
Stergomena Lawrence Tax
 » The summit also endorsed
the 41st Summit theme:
Bolstering Productive
Capacities in the Face
of COVID–19 Pandemic
for Inclusive, Sustainable
Economic and Industrial
Transformation
 » The summit urged
member states that
have not yet signed or
ratified the Protocol on
Industry, the Agreement
on the Operationalisation
of the SADC Regional
Development Fund and
the Protocol on Trade
in Services to do so and
to continue up–scaling
implementation of
activities under the four
pillars of industrialisation,
competitiveness, market
integration and cross–
cutting issues that are
lagging behind
 » The Extraordinary SADC
Organ Troika Summit took
place during the Fourth
Quarter. The summit
directed the Secretariat
to initiate the process of
convening a Tripartite
Summit of the SADC, East
African Community and
International Conference
on the Great Lakes Region,
with the participation of the
UN and the AU to consider
a coordinated approach to
the DRC conflict, with a view
to elevating the coordination
to the AU. The summit
adopted the AU Declaration
and urged member states to
communicate SADC’s position
and reaffirm the stance of
non–alignment on conflicts
outside the continent and
region at multilateral fora.
The summit also urged
member states to strengthen
real–time information–
sharing and exchange of
intelligence on matters that
adversely affect the region
and submit periodic reports
to regional early warning
centres

115ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The Implementation of the
RISDP and socio–economic
development:
 » The 40th SADC Ordinary
Summit of Heads of State
and Government (HoSG),
held on 17 August 2020,
approved the SADC Vision
2050 and the RSIDP
2020–2030
 » To operationalise the
strategic documents,
member states were
requested to undertake
national consultations on
the draft RISDP 2020–2030
Implementation Plan and
provide inputs to the
Secretariat
 » The summit reflected on
the socio–economic impact
of COVID–19 on SADC
economies and noted its
effects across sectors.
This impacted adversely
on the implementation
of the RISDP. The summit
approved proposed
measures that are to
address the sectoral
effects, including an
enhanced Macro–
economic Convergence
Surveillance Mechanism
 » Regarding the situation
in Lesotho, the summit
recommended the
extension of the mandate
of the National Reform
Authority for a period
of six months from 30
October 2021 to 30 April
2022. It also extended
the mandate of President
Cyril Ramaphosa as SADC
Facilitator until the 42nd
SADC Summit of Heads of
State and Government
 » SADC facilitation efforts in
the Kingdom of Lesotho
continued with the
conclusion of the National
Dialogue process and
the adoption of the key
thematic areas for the
implementation of the
comprehensive reform
process
 » The SADC HoSG, on 23
June 2021 in Maputo,
Mozambique, approved the
deployment of the SADC
Mission in Mozambique
(SAMIM) from 15 July 2021
as a regional response and
support to Mozambique to
combat extremism and acts
of terrorism in the Northern
Cabo Delgado province for
an initial period of three
months. This period could
be extended as deemed
necessary
The Seventh Summit of SACU
was hosted by the President
of Botswana in his capacity
as the Chair of the SACU
Summit in June 2022. As its
outcome, the summit adopted
a communiqué, which reflected
on current global developments,
including decisions critical to
Africa as adopted at the 12th
WTO Ministerial Conference,
the importance of remaining
resolute to implementing
COVID–19 recovery
programmes as well as the
impact of the current conflict
between Russia and Ukraine on
SACU economies
South Africa’s contribution
towards peace, stability,
democracy and good
governance in the SADC
region
At the SADC Summit held
in August 2022, President
Ramaphosa presented a
report to the summit as the
Outgoing Chairperson of the
Organ on Politics, Defence
and Security Cooperation. The
summit commended President
Ramaphosa for his outstanding
leadership and continued
efforts to address peace and
security threats during the year,
notwithstanding the challenges
posed by COVID–19

116
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » The summit approved
the SADC Guidelines
on Harmonisation and
Facilitation of Cross–
Border Transport
Operations across
the Region during the
COVID–19 pandemic
 » The Extra–Ordinary
Meeting of the Tripartite
Council of Ministers
considered and approved
the COMESA–EAC–SADC
Tripartite Trade and
Transport Facilitation
Guidelines for the
Movement of Persons,
Goods and Services across
the Tripartite Region
during the COVID–19
pandemic. The guidelines
assist the region to curb
the spread of COVID–19.
It is estimated that 60% of
trucks criss–crossing the
region are South African,
which implies that South
Africa stands to socially
and economically benefit
from the successful
implementation of the
guidelines
 » Coordinated South
Africa’s inputs on the
draft RISDP 2020 – 2030
Implementation Plan and
presented it at a Senior
Official’s Meeting
 » The mandate of the UN
Stabilisation Mission in the
DRC was extended by the
UNSC for one year from
18 December 2020 to 20
December 2021
 » The politico–security
situation in Zimbabwe will
also keep South Africa
occupied as Chair of the
Organ Troika
 » The Extraordinary Summit
of the SADC Organ Troika
in South Africa on 5
October 2021 considered
the progress report of
the Regional Coordination
Mechanism on the
Operations of the SADC
SAMIM
 » President Ramaphosa,
as Chair of the organ,
despatched Organ Troika
special envoys to Eswatini
from 21 to 23 October 2021
to engage King Mswati III on
the escalating political and
security developments in
the Kingdom
 » President Ramaphosa
participated in the
Extraordinary SADC Organ
Summit Plus in Malawi on
12 January 2022 to support
Mozambique to combat
acts of terrorism and violent
extremism in Cabo Delgado
Implementation of the
RISDP and socio–economic
development
Following the approval of the
RISDP 2020–2030 by the SADC
Summit in August 2021, the
SADC Secretariat worked on the
costing of the Implementation
Plan, which is undertaken in
phases that include costing of
regional coordination, costing
of interventions implemented
at the national level and
thereafter, costing of projects
and programmes
Political and security
integration
South Africa participated in the
SADC Organ Troika Summit
in the DRC in August 2022.
The Organ Troika Summit
deliberated on political and
security developments in the
region, which included a report
on the Kingdom of Lesotho and
the Kingdom of Eswatini, among
others
Regional economic
integration
In implementing the regional
cooperation and integration
agenda, SADC is guided by the
RISDP 2020 – 2030 and Vision
2050. The 42nd SADC Summit,
held in August 2022, approved
the RISDP national coordination
cost estimates

117ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » The SADC Council of
Ministers remained
ceased with the impact of
COVID–19 on SADC health
systems and economies
 » Contributed to the Draft
Tripartite Guidelines on
Cross–Border Movement
of Persons and Personal
Goods across the
Region during COVID–19
pandemic
 » Participated in a SACU
Commission where a
draft paper on the review
of the SACU institutional
framework and its
legal implications were
considered
 » Participated in the
Infrastructure Investment
Programme for South
Africa to consider the
status of implementation
of the projects under
the current settlement
agreement
It should be noted that the
primary goal of SADC is to
foster regional integration,
including political and
economic integration, for
the benefit of the SADC
population. SADC remains
a foreign policy priority
for South Africa in its
efforts to achieve regional
development and integration
within the region
 » South Africa participated
in the Fourth Steering
Committee meeting of the
SADC–EU Support to Peace
and Security in the SADC
Region, hosted by the SADC
Secretariat in Gaborone on
22 February 2022
 » Deputy Minister Candith
Mashego–Dlamini
participated in the launch
of the SADC Regional
Counter–Terrorism Centre,
hosted by Tanzania on
28 February 2022
 » South Africa participated
in the 16th Tripartite Free
Trade Area Meeting of
the Tripartite Committee
of Senior Officials, held
virtually from 10 – 11
February 2022
 » On 25 January 2022,
Malawi, as Chair of the
Committee of Ministers of
Justice/Attorneys–General,
hosted a meeting, which
was attended by the 13
member states

118
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
PROGRAMME: REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Implementation of the
RISDP and socio–economic
development:
 » The SADC Summit approved
the RISDP 2020 – 2030 in
August 2021. The costing
of regional coordination
activities has been finalised,
based on the RISDP 2020 –
2030 Implementation Plan
 » South Africa participated
in a meeting of the SADC
Trade Negotiating Forum
(TNF)–Services from 11 to
13 May 2021 and that of
the TNF–Goods from 17 to
19 May 2021
South Africa participated
in the 19th Meeting of the
Tripartite TNF, chaired by
Madagascar, as Chair of
COMESA, from 21 to 22 June
2021
Linking performance with budgets
Actual expenditure for 2022/23 amounted to R3.375 billion against final appropriation of R3.386 billion, which represented an underspending of R10.9 million. The
programme overspent on compensation of employees due to depreciation of the Rand against major foreign currencies.

119ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Subprogramme expenditure
Subprogramme name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Africa  1 116 000  1 113 813 2 187  1 044 688  1 030 208  14 480
Asia and Middle East  974 118  973 837  281  962 018  942 060  19 958
Americas and Caribbean  463 536  462 517  1019  470 341  465 317  5 024
Europe  832 616  825 177  7 439  877 605  838 261  39 344
Total  3 386 270  3 375 344  10 926  3 354 652  3 275 846  78 806
4.3. Programme 3: International Cooperation
Purpose: Participate in initiatives of international organisations and
institutions in line with South Africa’s national values and foreign policy
objectives
Subprogramme 3.1: Global System of Governance
Purpose: Participate in the global system of governance
Subprogramme 3.2: Continental Cooperation
Purpose: Strengthen socio-economic and political development of the African
continent
Subprogramme 3.3: South-South Cooperation
Purpose: Strengthen South-South relations
Subprogramme 3.4: North-South Dialogue
Purpose: Strengthen relations with the strategic formations of the North
Outcomes:
 » Proponent of strengthening multilateral institutions through consistently
upholding South Africa’s principled positions
 » United and politically cohesive continent that works towards shared
prosperity and sustainable development
 » South-South relations strengthened and consolidated in advancement of
national and continental priorities
 » Relations with the North leveraged in advancement of national and
continental priorities
With its near universal membership and vast agenda, the United Nations (UN)
remains the most important multilateral institution and the centre of global
governance. Therefore, engagement with the UN, and active participation in its
processes, is of vital importance to South Africa and the advancement of our foreign
policy priorities within this multilateral context is critical for issues of concern to
South Africa and the developing South.

120
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is informed by the realisation that the UN
does not reflect current global political and economic realities. Hence, a key priority
in South Africa’s engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the existing
global governance architecture with a view to improving its responsiveness to the
needs of, and challenges faced by, developing states. The multilateral environment
remains under threat from unilateralist tendencies and geopolitical tensions, as
well as a gradual erosion and politicisation of multilateral programmes and agenda–
setting due to the chronic shortfalls in the UN’s regular budget and increased
reliance on extra budgetary/earmarked funding. Consequently, South Africa seeks
to influence this environment through active participation in the system of global
governance, at the same time also honouring all membership obligations.
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is based on its commitment to promote
an equitable rules–based multilateral system based on international law. A key
priority in South Africa’s engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the
existing global governance architecture with a view to improving the voice and
representation of Africa and the developing world, as well as the responsiveness
of the UN system to the needs of and challenges faced by Africa and developing
states.
A primary element of South Africa’s global efforts to promote and maintain
international peace and security is its policy on disarmament, non–proliferation
as well as arms control. This policy includes reinforcing and promoting the country
as a responsible producer, possessor and trader of defence–related products and
advanced technologies.
In this regard, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation continues
to promote the benefits that disarmament, non–proliferation and arms control
hold for international peace and security.
As a member of the various supplier regimes and of the Africa Group and the
Non–Aligned Movement (NAM), the importance of non–proliferation is promoted,
taking into account that export controls should not become the means whereby
developing countries are denied access to advanced technologies required for
their development.
In seeking solutions to intractable disarmament, non–proliferation and arms–
control challenges in the international arena, a bridge–building approach has been
followed to seek realistic and achievable solutions. While dealing with challenging
issues from a pragmatic perspective, due recognition has been given to the role
that civil society can play in partnership with governments of the world, especially
in the context of seeking solutions to the divergent views that often characterise
international negotiations.
South Africa continues to be a prominent role–player on the prohibition and non–
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This includes nuclear disarmament
through the promotion and universalisation of the Treaty on the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons (TPNW). The TPNW establishes an international norm that de–
legitimises and stigmatises the possession of nuclear weapons. It further aims
to contribute towards achieving the objective set out in the very first resolution
adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1946 to eliminate all weapons of mass
destruction.
The treaty complements other international instruments by contributing towards
fulfilling the nuclear disarmament obligations under the Nuclear Non–Proliferation
Treaty (NPT), the objectives of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test–Ban Treaty (CTBT)
and the various nuclear–weapon–free–zone treaties, such as the Pelindaba Treaty
that already banned nuclear weapons in Africa.
To complement the above efforts, South Africa is actively engaged in the
Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND), as well as the Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice (CCPCJ), under the auspices of the UN in the fight
against transnational organised crime as a common and shared responsibility
of all UN member states. There is consensus that transnational organised crime
remains a global challenge and a threat to stability, peace, security and sustainable
development. The country will use its presence in the CND and the CCPCJ to

121ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
consolidate the African Agenda in ensuring availability, accessibility and affordability
of critical medical supplies for scientific and medicinal purposes; and enhancing
regional and continental cooperation in the fight against cross–border crimes such
as human trafficking, cybercrime, wildlife crimes and illegal mining, respectively.
African Union
South Africa’s foreign policy orientation remains, among others, grounded in the
ideals of Pan–Africanism and a commitment to multilateralism, with the African
Union (AU) at its core, and, as a fundamental principle, the consolidation of the
African Agenda. For this reason, Africa remains the focal point of South Africa’s
foreign policy. South Africa’s engagement with the AU remains driven and based
on the core mandate and objectives of the union, being to achieve greater unity
and solidarity between the African countries and the peoples of Africa; to promote
sustainable development at the economic, social and cultural levels as well as the
integration of African economies; and to promote peace, security and stability on
the continent. South Africa will continue to host the organs of the AU, namely the
Pan African Parliament, the AU Development Agency and the African Peer Review
Mechanism, in terms of the host agreements signed with the AU in this regard.
South Africa has elevated the implementation of Agenda 2063 as one of the
foremost priorities in the advancement of the African Agenda. South Africa has
utilised its participation in all AU statutory meetings, during 2022/23, to advocate
and encourage other member states of the AU to align their respective national
development plans with Agenda 2063 to ensure coordination and domestication of
Africa’s aspirations and goals. Agenda 2063 and its implementation is one of South
Africa’s legacies and shows commitment in advancing the ideals and objectives of
the of AU.
Economic and social development
In the sustainable development space, South Africa sought to negotiate outcomes in
multilateral processes that uphold the guiding principles of the UN’s 2030 Agenda,
including the integrated and indivisible nature of the Sustainable Development
Goals and leaving no one left behind. The focus was on ensuring that ambitious
and progressive multilateral outcomes, such as on addressing climate change and
the loss of biological diversity, are matched with enabling means of implementation
support for developing countries and informed by equity, national circumstances
and differentiation to ensure that the right to development and the development
space of African and other developing countries is respected. South Africa remained
steadfast in supporting the World Health Organisation (WHO) to lead global efforts
to mitigate the COVID–19 pandemic and to ensure that safe and effective vaccines,
diagnostics and therapeutics were developed.
South Africa also continued to support and participate actively in the discussions
at the WHO through the Intergovernmental Negotiating Body (INB) to draft and
negotiate a legally binding convention, agreement or other international instrument
on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, as well as the WHO Working
Group on Amendments to the International Health Regulations (2005). South Africa
attended international fora, such as the World Trade Organisation (WTO), World
Economic Forum (WEF), G7 and World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) in
its quest to advocate for reforms of the global trading framework so that it is just,
equitable and responsive to its needs, the needs of Africa and those of countries
of the South.
South Africa contributed to strengthening coordination of national stakeholder
engagement on social development matters to optimally promote and advocate
for social development issues to remain on the international agenda in pursuit of
South Africa’s foreign policy objectives in relation to the AU’s Agenda 2063 and UN
2030 Agenda.

122
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Human rights
South Africa’s participation in the UN human rights and humanitarian systems
is underpinned by the principles, norms, values and standards, which are
enshrined in the Constitution and are given practical expression in various policy
documents (e.g., the National Development Plan [NDP]) of government. The design,
management and conduct of South Africa’s foreign policy in the field of human
rights and humanitarian affairs are premised on:
 » (a) the commitment made by the people of South (when they adopted a new
Constitution in 1993 [interim Constitution] and 1996 [the “final” Constitution))
to “build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place
as a sovereign [and responsible] state in the family of nations (Preamble to
the 1996 Constitution)
 » (b) the foundational values enumerated in section 1 (a) of the Constitution,
specifically, “human dignity, the achievement of equality and the advancement
of human rights and freedoms.”
When the people of South Africa made the above–mentioned commitments and
embraced these values, they wanted to send a strong and assuring message to the
family of nations, among others, that:
 » South Africa will no longer be known as a pariah in the eyes of the international
community but a cooperative member of the family of nations and will be
willing to be bound by and respect the rule of international law and promote
resolution of conflicts through peaceful means and not war
 » South Africa will play a constructive role in international politics and help
develop norms, standards and values at the multilateral level (in this case, in
the field of human rights and humanitarian affairs) that will foster respect for
human dignity, advancement of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
and help bring an end to racism, racial discrimination and all forms of
intolerance
 » South Africa will no longer use its sovereignty to violate international human
rights law, international humanitarian law and the international law of
protection.
Inspired by these commitments, some of the key principles that underpin South
Africa’s engagement with the world therefore include:
 » belief in international cooperation and human solidarity
 » pursuing global solutions through multilateral processes as opposed to
unilateral measures that are driven by brute economic, political and military
power
 » building strong international institutions that work in the interests of all (with
particular attention to the needs of vulnerable groups and marginalised
individuals and communities)
 » developing norms and standards that will be commonly shared and promoted;
working for a peaceful world that will create conducive environment for
development
 » putting the human rights of all at the centre of cooperation programmes.
All these principled positions resonate with South Africa’s national interests and
outlook of the world as captured in our Constitution, relevant pieces of legislation,
and national policy programmes (such as the NDP).
During the period under review, South Africa engaged vigorously in regional
and multilateral fora, which addressed various aspects of human rights and
humanitarian affairs. In the case of human rights, South Africa participated in the
processes of the Human Rights Council (HRC) in Geneva as well as in the Third
Committee in New York. Consistent with South Africa’s goal to play a far more active
part in the UN human rights system and to influence its work and processes, South
Africa ran a successful campaign and was elected with overwhelming support by
the UN General Assembly to take a seat in the HRC for the period 2023 to 2025. On
1 January 2023, South Africa took its seat in the 47–member body based in Geneva.
South Africa came into the HRC at a time when, to mention a few:

123ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
 » the world was still reeling in shock in the (continuing) aftermath of the
COVID–19 pandemic
 » the multilateral system was facing major challenges after the disastrous
“isolationism” of the Trump administration and the desperate attempt to
claw–back lost ground under the Biden leadership
 » the battlelines were drawn in the sand as the world found itself confronted
with the ravages of the Russia–Ukraine war
 » there was (and still is) growing tension between the United States (US) (and
its European allies) on the one hand and China (and Russia) on the other
 » there were (and still are) increasing attempts to “securitise” international
relations
 » human rights and people’s rights were (and still are) looked at through the
prism of military, security, economic and political objectives
 » there were (and still are) increasing levels of poverty – which manifests itself
through the ugly faces of burgeoning urban slums, crime, corruption, gender–
based violence (GBV), trafficking in humans and narcotics and repression in
the world, particularly in Africa and other developing countries of the South
 » the landscape in many parts of the developing world was (and still is)
littered with protracted conflicts (and civil strife), which have engendered
displacement, food security concerns and health predicaments
 » there was (and still is) a proliferation of non–state actors (including armed
groups, private military and security companies [PMSCs] and multinational
corporations and other business entities [MNCs and OBEs]) whose activities
impact all aspects of life in countries where they operate
 » there were (and still are) acute global concerns about energy security.
The effects of climate change were (and still are) imposing a heavy toll on countries
and poulations. All these developments and incidents have a direct impact on the
ability of affected people to enjoy human rights. As a member of the HRC, South
Africa engaged with all these phenomena in various resolutions (approximately
40 of them) that came before the council during its 52nd Session (HRC52). In
its engagement in HRC52, South Africa ensured that its statements, positions,
recommendations, and ultimately, its voting decisions were reflective of the
following considerations:
 » respect for the rule of international law and promotion of the principled
position that conflicts and wars should be resolved through peaceful means
and not war
 » playing a constructive role and help develop norms, standards and values at
the multilateral level (in this case, in the field of human rights) that will foster
respect for human dignity, advancement of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, combatting GBV, pursue and foster the empowerment of women,
fight for the rights of children and marginalised/vulnerable communities/
groups (e.g. LGBTQIA+, journalists, migrants, persons with disabilities,
refugees and other people of concern) and help bring an end to racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and all forms of intolerance
 » promoting access to quality healthcare, including to medicines and vaccines
and developing binding laws to regulate the activities of multinational
corporations and other business enterprises, which impact on the ability of
people to enjoy human rights.
Going into the HRC, South Africa had clear priorities that it planned to pursue.
These include:
 » putting emphasis on the need to treat all human rights – civil, political,
economic, social and cultural – on an equal footing since they are indivisible,
interdependent and interrelated
 » the need to preserve the mandate of the HRC to avoid the persistent
attempts by some countries to politicise the work of the council and deal
with issues on its agenda based on double standards and in a selective and
divisive manner

124
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
 » the need for the international community to fully implement the commitments
made by governments to fight racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance, which commitment comes out of the World Conference
Against Racism (WCAR) that was held in Durban in 2001
 » continue championing the resolutions in the HRC and in the UN General
Assembly, highlighting the responsibilities of governments, societies and
individuals around the world to fight racism in all its manifestations, including
racial discrimination against and profiling of Africans and people of African
descent in law enforcement and other programmes of social administration
 » the need to promote human solidarity and for the international community
to work together to protect human rights and resolve the common problems
facing humanity
 » continue supporting and calling for the full realisation of the right to self–
determination of the people of Palestine and Western Sahara.
In addition to this, South Africa will advocate for an end to the imposition of
unilateral coercive measures by some Western countries on developing countries
to force the latter countries to abide by the wishes of the former. From South
Africa’s perspective, the imposition of these measures has a detrimental impact on
the enjoyment of human rights by citizens of affected countries.
During the period under review, South Africa “revitalised” its Women, Peace and
Security (WPS) Agenda with a focus on how to augment the role and full participation
of women in the national and global WPS processes. South Africa (through the new
focal point in the department) worked with UN Women (offices in New York and
South Africa) to successfully host the Inter–Regional Meeting of the Global Network
of Focal Points on Women, Peace and Security from 6 to 7 December 2022.
Key outcomes included discussions on:
 » women’s participation in peace processes – role and operationalisation of
the women mediator network
 » WPS action plans – sustaining financing and civil–society engagement
 » regional and subregional organisations and strengthening WPS collaboration.
The role of women in conflict resolution and peacebuilding must be strengthened,
more so in view of the increasing instances of instability, conflict and strife, not
only in Africa, but in other parts of the world. Consistent with its commitment and
principled position to find peaceful resolution to conflicts, South Africa will continue
playing a prominent role to promote the WPS Agenda and ensure that this agenda
delivers on its goals.
Humanitarian affairs
During the period under review, South Africa continued to play its role in promoting
its humanitarian diplomacy and addressing other pressing issues relating to
food security, migration, displacement and people of concern. In this regard,
South Africa partnered with various UN agencies (e.g. UN High Commissioner for
Refugees [HCR], World Food Programme [WFP] and other Rome–based agencies)
and other international organisations (e.g. International Committee of the Red
Cross [ICRC]) to respond to issues and situations of humanitarian concerns. In
promoting observance of and compliance with International Humanitarian Law
(IHL), South Africa partnered with the ICRC and jointly hosted the 21st annual
regional seminar on the implementation of IHL under the theme:  International
Humanitarian Law: An African Perspective on Contemporary Global Challenges. The
seminar brought together representatives from approximately 16 countries from
the southern African and Indian Ocean Island states, and representatives from the
AU Commission and Southern African Development Community Secretariat. Guest
participants from other regions such as Kenya from the East African Community
and Nigeria from the Economic Community of West African States also attended.

125ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
The seminar provided a unique intergovernmental space for peer–to–peer
exchange on member states’ implementation of their obligations under IHL.
Furthermore, it offered a platform for participants to present voluntary country
reports, share best practices and identify emerging trends and priorities for the
region on the implementation of IHL.
South Africa is a key player in advocating for regional platforms in strengthening
compliance with IHL, particularly noting that there is no formal treaty reporting
obligation linked to IHL implementation. The convening of regional seminars
provided an opportunity for ensuring compliance with IHL under the atmosphere of
peer–to–peer review of states without politicising and selective targeting of countries
with challenges of enforcement, non–compliance and non–implementation of the
Geneva Conventions of 1949 and their Additional Protocols of 1977.
As a leading humanitarian actor on the continent, South Africa continued to
support humanitarian causes on the continent and beyond by making voluntary
contributions and in some instances, responded to appeals for assistance from
sister countries and international organisations. In this regard, South Africa
contributed a total amount of R9 million to support humanitarian efforts (R3 million
each) of the ICRC, UN Relief and Works Agency and WFP. In addition to this, South
Africa also contributed a total of R10 million (R5 million each) to Türkiye and Syria
(through humanitarian organisations operating on the ground) in the wake of the
devastating earthquakes that struck the two countries in February 2023 (with the
death toll of over 60 000).

126
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Proponent of
strengthening
multilateral
institutions
through
consistently
upholding
South Africa’s
principled
positions
South Africa’s
interests and the
African Agenda
promoted and
reflected in
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations dealing
with peace and
security, human
rights, economic and
social development
Number of reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting South
Africa’s participation
and interests,
including that of the
African Agenda on
peace and security,
human rights and
economic and social
development
New indicator Twelve assessment reports reflecting
South Africa’s contribution towards:
Peace and security
The report on peace and security
focusses on the following activities
that took place during the reporting
period:
 » Peace Building Commission (PBC)
 » IGN on Security Council Reform
 » Ad Hoc Committee on Cybercrime
 » Open meetings of the UN Security
Council (UNSC)
 » UN General Assembly (UNGA)
Special Session (UNGASS) against
Corruption
The engagements at the PBC were
aimed at ensuring post–conflict
reconstruction and development in
countries emerging from conflict.
It was recognised by member
states at these meetings that the
COVID–19 pandemic had presented
new challenges with regard to
peacebuilding activities, as resources
allocated for peacebuilding and
reconstruction had to be channelled
to other sectors, such as healthcare.
South Africa’s approach, in line with
its strategy on peacebuilding, was to
emphasise:
 » the importance of having
nationally–owned and nationally–
led efforts in peacebuilding
initiatives and activities
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including
that of the African
Agenda on:
 » peace and
security
 » human rights
 » economic
and social
development
Twelve reports on the outcomes of
multilateral and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that of the
African Agenda were submitted
Peace and security
 » The meetings of the PBC were
aimed at ensuring post–conflict
reconstruction and development in
countries emerging from conflict
South Africa’s approach, in line with
its strategy on peacebuilding, was to
emphasise:
 » the importance of having nationally
owned and nationally led efforts in
peacebuilding initiatives and activities
 » the necessity of enhanced
partnerships between the AU, RECs
and the UN
 » predictable and adequate financing
for critical peacebuilding activities
 » monitoring and evaluation of the
performance and effectiveness of
institutions by national stakeholders
South Africa participated in the following
meetings of the PBC:
Columbia:
The meeting expressed concern about
the security situation of some regions in
Colombia and called for increased efforts
in addressing security across the country
and ensuring the protection of all. South
Africa’s approach was to support the
peacebuilding efforts in the country as a
means for sustainable peace

127ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » the necessity of enhanced
partnerships between the AU,
regional economic communities
(RECs) and the UN
 » predictable and adequate financing
for critical peacebuilding activities
 » and monitoring and evaluation of
the performance and effectiveness
of institutions by national
stakeholders
Continued participation in the
Intergovernmental Negotiations
Framework (IGN) provides South
Africa with an opportunity to pursue
its objective of reform of institutions
of global governance, particularly
the UNSC. In all the IGN meetings
on UNSC reform, South Africa has
called for the reform process to
gain momentum and in this regard,
text–based negotiations should
commence, as Africa should be given
permanent membership as stated
in the AU’s Common African Position
on Security Council Reform (Ezulwini
Consensus)
South Africa prepared for and
participated in the meeting of the
Ad–Hoc Committee on Cybercrime,
as well as in informal preparatory
meetings. Recognising that
cybercrime is a global challenge,
South Africa has, together with
BRICS member states, championed
efforts to establish an international
legally binding mechanism under the
auspices of the UN to address this
problem
Lake Chad Basin:
The meeting agreed to continue to
support the work of the PBC in the Lake
Chad Basin and South Africa’s statement
emphasised post–conflict reconstruction
and development in the wider region
Youth, Peace and Security:
Member states underscored the
importance of the need to ensure
adequate, predictable and sustainable
financing for youth organisations,
including the removal of barriers for
their access to these funds through
capacity–building, training and exchange
of best practices
South Africa focussed on the role of
youth in building sustainable peace
Liberia:
The meeting welcomed the planned
Chair’s visit to Liberia and expressed
support to the priority focus of
discussions on gender equality and
women’s empowerment, particularly
in the context of the elections of 2023.
South Africa reiterated its support for
the WPS Agenda and the importance of
its implementation in Liberia
Prepared for and participated in the
General Debate of the 77th Session
of the UNGA77
South Africa participated in the General
Debate of UNGA77 High–Level Week
(HLW) from 19 to 26 September 2022.
The chosen theme for the UNGA77 was
A Watershed Moment: Transformative
Solutions to Interlocking Challenges

128
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Between 2011 and 2021, South Africa
chaired the UN Intergovernmental
Expert Group (IEG) process to
conduct a comprehensive study on
the problem of cybercrime and come
up with findings and options on how
to deal with this challenge
The IEG completed its mandate in
April 2021 and the focus will now
be on the Ad–Hoc Committee on
Cybercrime to negotiate a treaty to
address cybercrime
The meetings of the UNSC were
aimed at advancing international
peace and security. As was the case
during South Africa’s term as an
elected member of the council from
2019 to 2020, the council remains
plagued by geopolitical divisions
among permanent members, which
makes reaching consensus much
more difficult. South Africa’s approach
was to emphasise the importance
of regional cooperation (particularly
cooperation between the UN and
the AU) and the peaceful resolution
of conflict. In accordance with
the assessment report on South
Africa’s recent term on the council,
South Africa participated in all open
meetings of the UNSC to ensure
that it remained engaged in council
matters and to continue to share its
views on global peace and security
matters with the aim of shaping
council action on these matters.
The theme resonated with the multiple
global challenges, including the
escalating effects of climate change; new
security threats and protracted conflicts;
persistent delays in the implementations
of the Sustainable Development
Goals; and the prevailing geopolitical
contestations. This was the first full
in–person meeting post–COVID–19 and
thus attracted the participation of over
150 heads of state and government
Prepared for and participated in the
IAEA BoG/GC
The IAEA BoG met in advance of the GC
to discuss reports of the IAEA Director–
General on nuclear and radiation safety;
nuclear security; strengthening the
agency’s activities related to nuclear
science, technology and applications;
verification and monitoring of the Islamic
Republic of Iran in light of UN Security
Council Resolution 2231 (2015); nuclear
verification; and matters arising from
the 64th and 65th regular sessions of
the GC
The GC, in addition to receiving national
statements outlining the priorities of
the various delegations, and electing
the new members of the BoG, also
considered resolutions on key issues
reflecting progress made since the
previous regular session on the
following issues:
 » nuclear and radioactive safety
 » nuclear security
 » strengthening the agency’s technical
cooperation activities

129ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » strengthening the agency’s
activities related to nuclear science,
technology and applications
 » strengthening and improving the
effectiveness the efficiency of
agency safeguards and applications
of IAEA Safeguards in the Middle
East
Participation in the UNGASS against
Corruption was aimed at pursuing an
international commitment by member
states to acknowledge the need for
greater political will to step up the
fight against corruption
The Special Session reaffirmed
member states’ commitment
to the UN Convention against
Corruption (UNCAC) and the bodies
created under it, the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development,
and strengthening international
cooperation to fight it, while
respecting the purposes and
principles of the UN Charter
South Africa prepared for and
participated in this meeting, including
in the negotiations of the Political
Declaration on the Challenges
and Measures to Prevent and
Combat Corruption and Strengthen
International Cooperation
South Africa impressed the
need for enhanced international
cooperation in matters of asset
recovery, extradition and mutual legal
assistance, respectively. Lastly, South
Africa reiterated its commitment to
the full and effective implementation
of the UNCAC and invited member
states who had not yet done so, to
consider acceding to this convention
South Africa further delivered a
statement, in which it reiterated the call
for the ratification of the Revised Art
VI of the Statute, which would expand
the size of the BoG, including for Africa,
and called for the revision or review
of the regional grouping system that
has rendered 20 plus member states
homeless, resulting in them being
unable to serve on the BoG or to stand
for leadership positions in policy–
making organs of the IAEA
General Assembly meeting on
Ukraine
The Emergency Special Session (ESS) of
the General Assembly convened on 22
and 23 February to consider a resolution
on Ukraine, titled “Principles of the
Charter of the United Nations underlying
a comprehensive, just and lasting
peace in Ukraine”. This was followed
by a high–level debate on Ukraine in
the UNSC on 24 February 2023. South
Africa abstained on the resolution and
presented an explanation of the vote (in
which it continued to call for the use of
diplomacy and negotiations to resolve
the conflict). The explanation of the vote
also reiterated South Africa’s strong
belief in the purposes and principles of
the UN Charter, including sovereignty
and territorial integrity, highlighting that
these apply also to Ukraine

130
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
(International Atomic Energy
Agency) IAEA Board of
Governance/General Conference
(GC)
The GC, in addition to receiving
national statements outlining the
priorities of the various delegations
and electing the new members of
the Board of Governors (BoG), also
considered resolutions on key issues
reflecting progress made since the
previous regular session, on the
following issues:
 » nuclear and radioactive safety
 » nuclear security
 » strengthening the agency’s
technical cooperation activities
 » strengthening the agency’s
activities related to nuclear science,
technology and applications
 » strengthening the effectiveness and
improving the efficiency of agency
safeguards
 » applications of IAEA safeguards in
the Middle East
General Debate of the 76th
Session of the UN General
Assembly
UNGA76 was of significance not only
to South Africa but to the continent
as a whole, as African heads of state
and government all spoke in unison
about the growing inequalities
between and within states, which had
been exacerbated by the COVID–19
pandemic
Economic and social development
214th Session of the UNESCO
Executive Board
The 214th Session, among others,
adopted a resolution on the
appointment of external auditors.
African countries ensured the issues of
importance for Africa remained at the
centre of UNESCO’s programmes. South
Africa’s national statement was well
received, making its participation at the
Executive Board impactful
55th Session of the UN Commission
on Population and Development
(CPD)
The 55th Session adopted the resolution
on Population and Sustainable
Development, in Particular Sustained
and Inclusive Economic Growth; adopted
the Cycle for the Review and Appraisal of
the Implementation of the Programme
of Action of the International Conference
on Population and Development;
adopted the Provisional Agenda of the
56th Session of the commission; and
the Special Theme of the 57th Session
of the CPD

131ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa and other African
leaders raised concern that the
global community had not sustained
the principles of solidarity and
cooperation in securing equitable
access to COVID–19 vaccines.
UNGA76 once again reaffirmed the
importance of multilateralism. It also
illustrated the concerns of world
leaders about the current state of
international relations and called for
changes
South Africa stressed that the
international community must
redouble its efforts to build a world
free of racism and all forms of
discrimination and stand united in
combatting the COVID–19 pandemic
Commonwealth Foreign Affairs
Ministers’ Meeting (CFAMM)
The focus of the CFAMM centred
around three major challenges
facing the Commonwealth family,
namely: trade and economic recovery,
health and vaccine equity, and the
road to COP26 and the proposed
Commonwealth Leaders’ Declaration
on Climate Change
South Africa highlighted that the
implementation of the SDGs should
form the basic platform for recovery
from the pandemic. Increased efforts
need to be directed at supporting
low– and middle–income countries
with funding for investment, robust
public health systems and economic
growth, particularly women’s
economic inclusion
Fifth Global Conference on the
Elimination of Child Labour
The Fifth Global Conference of the
Elimination of Child Labour on 20 May
2022 closed with the adoption of the
“Durban Call to Action” to deal with the
scourge of child labour. The conference
was a collaboration between the South
African Government, the International
Labour Organisation, social partners,
international organisations and other
stakeholders. South Africa, through
the Department of Employment and
Labour (DEL) was a key driver in the
outcome “Durban Call to Action”,
which commits the social partners
and other stakeholders to accelerate
efforts to eliminate child labour and
the worst forms of labour by promoting
decent work; protecting survivors;
universalising access to education and
social protection; and increasing multi–
stakeholder cooperation and financing
for ending child and forced labour.
This was the first time the conference
occurred on the African continent.
DIRCO’s principal role was to support
the DEL in hosting the conference

132
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa emphasised the
importance of vaccine equity and
questioned it being placed on the
red list of countries facing stringent
restrictions and the high costs when
entering the United Kingdom. The
action taken was unreasonable in
view of South Africa’s progress in
combatting the COVID–19 pandemic
South Africa and India also called
on all Commonwealth members
to support the proposal made at
the WTO, for a temporary waiver
of certain provisions of the TRIPS
Agreement so as to allow more
countries, particularly developing
countries, to produce COVID–19
vaccines to efficiently respond to the
COVID–19 pandemic
The Seventh Review of the
UN Global Counter–Terrorism
Strategy and the Second High–
Level Meeting of Heads of
Counter–Terrorism agencies
Discussions covered a wide range
of counter–terrorism themes and
subjects, including a focus on the
impact of emerging technologies;
the rise of right–wing extremism and
hate speech; and the impact of the
COVID–19 pandemic on terrorism and
counterterrorism
WEF Annual Meeting
President Ramaphosa had previously
indicated his inability to attend the
meeting and nominated ministers
Mmamoloko Kubayi (Human
Settlements and leader of the Economic
Cluster); Naledi Pandor (International
Relations and Cooperation) and Enoch
Godongwana (Finance) to represent
South Africa
The meeting provided an opportunity
for government to share an update on
South Africa’s economic reconstruction
and recovery plan, promote the
country’s economic reforms and
advance important public–private
partnerships to support the country’s
development objectives
G7 Outreach Segment
A substantial part of the summit
provided an opportunity for an
exchange on issues related to climate,
energy and health. In particular,
the discussion focussed on ways to
accelerate action towards the goals
and objectives of the Paris Agreement,
including how an open and collaborative
Climate Club could contribute to this
aim. In this context, an exchange of
views took place on how to build on
and advance existing partnerships to
accelerate a clean and just transition
towards climate neutrality. Furthermore,
this exchange examined the impacts
of the current geopolitical situation on
energy markets and supply, security and
possible action to secure energy supply
and limit the increases in energy prices
in the short term

133ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The meeting acknowledged that
Al–Qaeda and ISIL/Da’esh remained
the two primary terrorist threats
internationally, but noted that this
threat, while once fairly contained
in specific geographical regions,
had become more diffuse with an
alarming proliferation of terrorism
on the African continent following
the territorial collapse of the ISIL
“caliphate”
The meeting adopted the revised
UN Global Counter–Terrorism
Strategy. South Africa emphasised
the importance of maintaining the
new focus on extremism to violent
extremism conducive to terrorism, to
prevent exploitation of the term for
political purposes and the violation of
fundamental rights and freedoms
South Africa encouraged the
development of partnerships with
regional organisations given their
appreciation and understanding of
local and regional dynamics
The discussion on health focussed
on tackling the ongoing COVID–19
pandemic, strengthening pandemic
preparedness and response,
and improving the Global Health
Architecture. In the President’s
respective bilateral engagements with
his German and Japanese counterparts,
significant commitments were put
forth in the area of food security, which
seeks to not only develop and sustain
agricultural programmes, but also to
address deficits in the entire value chain
 » High–level meetings and participation
in the WEF and G20 foreign ministers
meeting, highlighting investment
opportunities and the need for
means of implementation support
for developing countries and
developed countries to honour their
commitments. This provided an
opportunity to promote South African
and African positions and to highlight
our domestic actions
 » South Africa participated in the 61st
Session of the UN CSocD with the
theme: Creating Full and Productive
Employment and Decent Work for all
after the Pandemic
 » South Africa, through the Permanent
Mission to the UN in New York,
facilitates the Resolution and Social
Dimensions of the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development annually on
behalf of the G77 and China

134
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
UNGA First Committee on
Disarmament and International
Security
South Africa participated in the UNGA
First Committee on Disarmament and
International Security matters during
October and November 2021
During the First Committee Session,
South Africa coordinated the New
Agenda Coalition (Brazil, Egypt,
Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand
and South Africa) Resolution,
entitled Towards a Nuclear–
Weapon–free World: Accelerating
the Implementation of Nuclear
Disarmament Commitments” as well
as the Resolution on “The illicit trade
in small arms and light weapons in all
its aspects”. South Africa also again
introduced the resolution “Ethical
imperatives for a nuclear weapon–
free world”
South Africa further participated in
the negotiations on 62 resolutions
and decisions under these clusters

135ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The delegation participated in the
vote on the various resolutions
in accordance with the voting
instructions approved by the Minister.
The resolutions for which South Africa
was responsible, were all adopted by
the committee
UNGA Fourth Committee
on Special Political and
Decolonisation
South Africa outlined its foreign policy
priorities in relation to the issue
of decolonisation and specifically
underlined its positions with respect
to the right to self–determination
of Western Sahara and Palestine. It
further denounced the persisting
unjust policies against Palestinian
people and the blatant violations
of international law, international
human rights law, as well as the non–
compliance with UNSC resolutions
Following the main general debate,
South Africa introduced resolutions
under item 54 (UNRWA), i.e., United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East
and Palestine Refugees’ Properties
and their Revenues, which were
adopted in the GA
 » South Africa delivered its national
statement and highlighted the high
levels of unemployment, poverty and
inequality as a challenge, and shared
its experience on the measures it took
towards recovery from the COVID–19
pandemic. The statement covered
the South African Government’s
numerous efforts to tackle societal
challenges on economic and social
levels, including making provision
through a dedicated national budget
on the social wage
 » The session re–affirmed
commitments towards the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development
and ensuring that “No One is Left
Behind”, as declared in the motto of
the SDGs
Human rights
South Africa used the HRC platform
to participate in discussions, debates
and deliberations with the stated
objective of contributing positively to the
development of norms and standards
in the field of human rights, which will
foster the promotion, protection and
practical realisation of all human rights
by all people across the world
The 50th Session of the HRC focussed
on the human rights of vulnerable
groups, including women, children,
people with disabilities, the elderly and
LGBTQIA+ communities.

136
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
UN Security Council (UNSC)
South Africa participated in the
following meetings:
 » open debate on peacebuilding and
sustaining peace, titled Diversity,
State Building and the Search for
Peace held on 12 October 2021
 » open debate on the Middle East,
including the question of Palestine,
held on 19 October 2021
 » UNSC Open Debate on Women,
Peace and Security, held on 21
October 2021
 » UNSC Open Debate on Exclusion,
Inequality and Conflict, held on 9
November 2021
South Africa highlighted the
importance of national stakeholders
to set priorities and build domestic
capacities that can strengthen local
institutions during the peacebuilding
process
South Africa further called on
the international community to
strengthen its resolve to advance
international action towards reaching
a sustainable and just settlement,
as well as self–determination of the
Palestinian people
South Africa underscored the
important role played by women in
peace processes and urged for their
participation in these processes
It highlighted the responsibility of all
UN organs to address these conflict–
contributing factors, within their
respective mandates as preventative
measures
The advancement of the human rights of
these persons is one of the key priorities
of the South African Government, which
has prioritised issues of women and girl
empowerment, ending GBV, protecting
the rights of people with disabilities and
other underrepresented groups, and
fighting the scourge of racism and other
forms of intolerance. All these issues
were on the agenda of the 50th session
of the HRC
The 51st Session of the HRC took place
against the backdrop of the ongoing
Russia–Ukraine conflict with the
deteriorating geopolitical international
environment impacting negatively on the
governance of the HRC. The vulnerability
of the council was exposed once again
by the continued divisions between
developed and developing countries
on a range of human rights issues
discussed during the session. South
Africa delivered 24 statements during
the session, which mainly encompassed
thematic issues as well as on the
Occupied Palestinian Territories
The 52nd Session of the HRC and its
high–level segment, held in Geneva
during February and March 2023.
South Africa had very clear objectives,
particularly in context of membership of
the council, which included:
 » that the HRC remains true to its
mandate
 » to ensure that the HRC gives equal
attention to all human rights

137ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Ninth Session of the United
Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime (UNODC)
South Africa prepared for and
participated in the Ninth Session of
the Conference of the States Parties
(COSP) to the UNCAC, held in hybrid
format in Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt),
from 13 to 17 December 2021.
The major outcome of the conference
was the adoption of the Sharm
El Sheikh Political Declaration,
entitled Strengthening International
Cooperation in the Prevention of and
Fight against Corruption during Times
of Emergencies and Crisis Response
and Recovery. Equally, the meeting
took stock of the progress made
since the Eighth Session of the COSP,
held in 2019 in Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates. South Africa joined
consensus on seven resolutions and
two decisions at the conference. The
resolutions covered topics such as
beneficial ownership in relation to
asset recovery; follow–up to the Abu
Dhabi Declaration; the 32nd UNGASS
on Corruption, as well as following up
on the Marrakech Declaration, which
called for collaboration between
regional review mechanisms and the
Implementation Review Group to
avoid duplication of work. Informal
negotiations on the resolutions and
decisions have been held via virtual
platforms and all but three of these
resolutions are still open.
 » to ensure that the HRC is faithful to
multilateralism and a rules–based
approach to human rights
 » to ensure that the HRC remains
committed to pursuing all the
objectives under item 9 (combatting
racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance)
 » to ensure that the question of
Palestine is kept alive on the agenda
(item 7) of the HRC
In addition to this, South Africa will
advocate for an end to the imposition
of unilateral coercive measures by
some Western countries on developing
countries to force the latter countries
to abide by the wishes of the former.
From South Africa’s perspective, the
imposition of these measures has a
detrimental impact on the enjoyment
of human rights by citizens of affected
countries. South Africa aims to use the
HRC platform to pursue our national
interests and promote our norms,
values, principles and objectives,
including promoting principles of
international cooperation and human
solidarity, peaceful settlement of
disputes, respect for the rule of
international law, the development of
Africa, and promotion and protection of
human rights; and to continue leading
efforts to address issues pertaining to
business and human rights (through
effective participation in processes
aimed at elaborating international
binding disciplines of transnational
corporations, other business enterprises
and private military and security
companies

138
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
For South Africa, the resolution on
beneficial ownership in relation to
asset recovery was the most critical
in view of national and continental
positions on the unconditional return
of assets
Side event on Strengthening the
Implementation of the United Nations
Convention against Corruption at the
SADC Level on 16 December 2021
The report on human rights provide
an overview of developments during
this reporting period
These include the conflict in Gaza
between Israel and the Palestinian
Authority; the conflict in Ethiopia’s
Tigray region; and the heightened
food insecurity because of COVID–19;
and other protracted conflict
situations, which are on the increase
South Africa co–hosted a SADC The
report reflects on review modalities
of the UN Humanitarian Response
Depot (UNHRD), following the
outcomes of the WFP Global Review.
South Africa is still interested in
hosting the UNHRD and preparations
are at an advanced stage. The matter
of a humanitarian hub in South Africa
may be impacted by Mozambique’s
offer to SADC to host the SADC
Humanitarian and Emergency and
Operations Centre (SHOC)

139ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The report reflects South Africa’s
participation in the UN Economic
and Social Council (ECOSOC)
Humanitarian Affairs Segment
(HAS). The theme for this HAS
was: Strengthening Humanitarian
Assistance to Face the Challenges of
2021 and Beyond: Mobilising Respect
for International Humanitarian Law,
Inclusion, Gender, Innovation and
Partnerships.
The meeting acknowledged the need
to increase humanitarian assistance
to support humanitarian operations
across the world. However, while
humanitarian assistance is important
for saving lives and addressing
prevailing humanitarian crises, there
is a need for sustainable solutions
addressing the triple nexus of relief,
peace and development
The heightened food and nutrition
insecurity continued across the world
despite various humanitarian appeals
by the UN and various international
humanitarian organisations
The withdrawal of the US and their
allies from Afghanistan worsened the
humanitarian crisis. The UN reported
that over 300 000 more people were
internally displaced within the country

140
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The world came together at the UN
Food Systems Summit to look at
ways to address rising food insecurity
and food systems, which had been
aggravated by COVID–19
Furthermore, the report reflects
South Africa’s participation in:
The 47th Session of the HRC
South Africa, on behalf of the Africa
Group, presented a resolution on
the “Promotion and protection of
the human rights and fundamental
freedoms of Africans and people of
African descent against excessive
use of force and other human
rights violations by law enforcement
officers through an agenda towards
transformative change for racial
justice and equality”
The 20th anniversary of
the adoption of the Durban
Declaration and Programme
of Action, where South Africa
emphasised that millions of the
descendants of Africans who were
sold into slavery remained trapped
in lives of underdevelopment,
disadvantage, discrimination and
poverty, and called on the UN to put
the issue of reparations on its agenda

141ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The UN Food Systems Summit,
where South Africa highlighted its
pathway towards transforming food
systems, drawing on the outcomes of
the national and provincial dialogues,
which had been undertaken prior
to the summit and the country’s
legislative and policy framework
Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women (CEDAW)
South Africa presented its fifth report
to the CEDAW Committee. The
main focus was on the promotion,
protection, advancement and
fulfilment of the rights of women;
the promotion of international
humanitarian law at home and in
the region through participation
in domestic and regional (SADC)
programmes aimed at popularising
international humanitarian law, so
that ordinary people were familiar
with their rights and obligations as
far as this area of law (laws of armed
conflict) during war and peace times
was concerned; and participation
in preparations for South Africa’s
universal periodic review report
(which will be submitted to the HRC
next year) to ensure transparency
in the manner in which South Africa
seeks to deepen the culture of human
rights in the country

142
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa participated in the
following high–level events:
High–Level Segment (HLS) of the
49th Session of the HRC
An objective of participating in the
HLS was to launch South Africa’s
campaign to return to the council for
the period 2023 to 2025
66th Session of the Commission
on the Status of Women (CSW66)
South Africa approached the
Chairship of the CSW66 through the
prism of the national perspective
on issues covered by the respective
themes of the CSW sessions with
respect to climate change and the
empowerment of women
The report on economic and
social development provides an
operational context showing that the
development gains of developing
countries have been set back 20 years
by the COVID–19 pandemic and we
find ourselves at ground zero with
respect to implementation of the UN
2030 Agenda
Internationally, a global re–balancing
is taking place, as the world is
becoming increasingly multipolar. In a
context where the effectiveness of the
UN is being challenged, and multiple
plurilateral structures have emerged,
which have brought both challenges
and opportunities

143ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The challenge for South Africa is to
navigate the seemingly contradictory
approaches in a manner that
complements and supplements
multilateral efforts and not undermine
or pre–empt inclusive multilateral
processes and entities such as the
UN, WTO and WHO
During the reporting period, the key
events were:
 » President Joe Biden´s Climate
Change Summit (22 and 23 April
2021)
The summit demonstrated a renewed
sense of urgency in reducing the
emission of greenhouse gases.
However, the ambition on mitigation
was not matched by the ambition
on adaptation and means of
implementation support by developed
countries to developing countries
 » The June sessional meetings of
the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change (31 May – 17 June
2021)
The discussions assisted delegations
to convey their positions and better
understand those of others as part of
preparations for the Glasgow Climate
Change Conference in November
2021. However, developed and
developing countries remain far apart
on the main negotiating issues
 » The 54th Session of the
Commission on Population and
Development (19–23 April 2021)
The 54th Session was successfully
concluded with the unanimous
adoption of the Resolution on
Population, Food Security, Nutrition
and Sustainable Development

144
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » The Global Health Summit (21 May
2021)
The summit adopted the Rome
Declaration of Principles, aimed
at guiding joint action to prevent
future health crises and to build
a safer, fairer and more equitable
and sustainable world. The
Global Health Summit provided
a timely opportunity for G20 and
other leaders, international and
regional organisation heads and
representatives of global health
bodies to share lessons learnt from
the ongoing COVID–19 pandemic
and discuss how to improve
global security through enhanced
cooperation, coordination and joint
action, accompanied by the spirit of
solidarity
 » The 74th Session of the World
Health Assembly (WHA) (24 May–
1 June 2021):
The WHA convened under the theme:
Ending this Pandemic, Preventing the
Next: Building Together a Healthier,
Safer and Fairer World. The assembly
reiterated the call for global solidarity
and collaboration to be better
prepared for the next global health
crisis. Important for South Africa,
was the adoption of a decision to
convene a Special Session of the WHA
from 29 November to 1 December
2021, to consider developing a WHO
convention, or other international
instrument, on pandemic
preparedness and response, known
as the “Pandemic Treaty”, which South
Africa co–sponsored

145ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » UN High–Level Meeting on HIV/
AIDS (8–10 June 2021):
The High–Level Meeting reviewed the
progress made in reducing the impact
of HIV since the last UNGA High–Level
meeting on HIV/AIDS in 2016
The need for integrated and
preventative approaches that address
intersecting social, economic and
gender dimensions were highlighted,
as well as investments in health
systems, as key to achieving HIV/
AIDS reduction targets. Concerns
continued to be raised on the loss of
more than 33 million people globally
to HIV and appeals were made to end
this scourge by 2030
In addition, the COVID–19 pandemic
led to most international events
being postponed or conducted
virtually. While some engagements
could be conducted through the
use of technology, such as virtual
meetings, larger gatherings did
not lend themselves favourably to
teleconferencing
In the area of global health, the
multilateral collaboration that was
evident at the start of the COVID–19
pandemic has slowly been replaced
by narrow national self–interest and
protectionism of vaccine availability in
the midst of a global pandemic, when
international solidarity and support
for the most vulnerable is needed
more than ever before

146
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The political context is also one of
weakness and division in the key
political formations of the global
South, such as the G77 and China.
Coordination among developing
counties spanning the world´s time
zones and the digital divide has
proven to be especially challenging.
The longer the pandemic lasts and
the greater the backlog in multilateral
processes, the more intense the
pressure is becoming to negotiate
and take decisions virtually
Key multilateral and plurilateral
fora were utilised to advance the
President´s messages and initiatives,
in his capacity as the AU COVID–19
Champion and co–chair of the Access
to COVID–19 Tools Accelerator
(ACT–A) Facilitation Council. Central to
this was promoting the South African
and Indian proposal to the WTO for
the emergency temporary waiver of
some aspects of TRIPS
South Africa also used the Foreign-
policy and Global Health (FPGH)
Initiative to advance the agenda of
Africa and developing countries, to
ensure that they are not left behind

147ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
During the reporting period, some key
events were:
The Extended 44th Session of the
World Heritage Committee
South Africa’s participation was seen
as a strong proponent to advance
the African Agenda and ensure that
national and continental heritage
sites continue to meet the criteria
and remain on the UN Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation
(UNESCO) World Heritage List
The FPGH Initiative Ministerial
Virtual Meeting
A Chair’s Summary was adopted,
which underlined the commitment
to the FPGH Initiative as a cross–
regional and diverse platform to
promote a more robust multilateral
collaboration, including for
strengthening global pandemic
preparedness and response
The meeting, among other
matters, expressed the importance
of solidarity and multilateral
collaboration to mitigate the
pandemic, sharing of resources and
best practices as well as to strengthen
the resilience, preparedness and
response to health emergencies and
recognised the important role of the
WHO in leading the global response
to the pandemic; and the dire need
to mobilise sustained financing and
resources for the WHO to achieve its
mandate

148
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
High–Level Political Forum (HLPF)
on Sustainable Development
HLPF 2021 focussed on sustainable
and resilient recovery from the
COVID–19 pandemic and getting
the world on track to implement the
2030 Agenda. South Africa delivered
eight statements or interventions,
including the national statement,
and participated in negotiations that
led to the adoption of a Ministerial
Declaration
Meeting between Minister Pandor
and the Head of WEF Africa
One of the main issues raised was the
challenge of vaccine nationalism by
developed countries. The proposal for
an emergency temporary waiver of
some aspects of TRIPS was important
for the marginalised to be granted
technology transfers to produce
vaccines for the duration of the
pandemic

149ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
UNFCCC´s Glasgow Climate
Change Conference (COP26/
CMP16/CMA3)
COP26 concluded the Paris
Agreement Work Programme, which
will assist parties to fully implement
the Paris Agreement. This includes
setting up an Enhanced Transparency
Framework and new carbon markets,
as well as work programmes on loss
and damage, adaptation and finance
for developing countries. Agreement
was reached to highlight the
importance of keeping the 1,5–degree
temperature goal within reach, as this
is safer than a 2–degree temperature
increase, especially for African
countries. South Africa and DIRCO
contributions were made in South
Africa’s national capacity, as well as
through its membership of the Africa
Group of Negotiators (AGN), G77 and
China and BASIC (Brazil, South Africa,
India and China) negotiation blocs
UNESCO 41ST GENERAL
CONFERENCE: 9–24 November
2021
South Africa was elected to the
UNESCO Executive Board for the
period 2021 to –2025 during the 41st
General Conference of UNESCO that
took place from 9–24 November 2021

150
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa will use its membership
on the Executive Board to pursue the
country’s National Interest and that of
the continent in the following areas:
namely the Medium Term Strategy, in
particular Priority Africa and Gender
Equality; UNESCO’s new strategy for
the next eight years; the landmark
normative instruments – one on the
ethics of Artificial Intelligence, the
other on open science; the Futures
of Education; as well as South Africa’s
membership of the World Heritage
Committee and the Management of
Social Transformation Programmes
(MOST)
UN Conference on Trade and
Development’s (UNCTAD) 15th
Ministerial Session (UNCTAD XV),
3–7 October 2021, Barbados and
Geneva
UNCTAD XV adopted the “Bridgetown
Covenant: From Inequality and
Vulnerability to Prosperity for All”,
which charts UNCTAD’s mandate for
the next four years. Preceding the
conference, was the G77 and China
Ministerial Meeting that adopted the
G77 Ministerial Declaration. South
Africa’s contributions were made
through its membership of the AGN
and the G77 and China

151ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The conference’s main outcome
document, the Bridgetown
Covenant, calls for an inclusive
and resilient economic recovery
in developing countries, which are
grappling with unequal access to
the COVID–19 vaccines, debt crisis,
climate emergencies and other
unprecedented challenges. The
outcome also recognises the key
role of UNCTAD on issues related
to illicit trade and illicit financial
flows, and outlines member states’
desire to see UNCTAD’s role as an
important intergovernmental forum
for consensus–building on trade and
development reinvigorated
G20 Leaders’ Summit: 30–31
October 2021, Rome, Italy
The outcome of the G20 Summit
was the adoption of the G20
Leaders Declaration. The text of the
declaration outlined three dimensions
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, namely: economic,
social and environmental, key in
achieving sustainable development.
G20 leaders agreed on the “role of
an open, fair, equitable, sustainable,
non–discriminatory and inclusive
rules–based multilateral trading
system”, with the Osaka and Riyadh
initiatives

152
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa successfully ensured
that the G20 leaders advanced
key national priorities and the
developmental priorities of Africa,
such as addressing inequality,
promoting the interests of Africa
and a rules–based multilateral
system in line with the NDP on the
“necessary reform of the World Trade
Organisation”, in line with the Osaka
and Riyadh initiatives
South Africa successfully ensured
that the G20 leaders advanced
key national priorities and the
developmental priorities of Africa,
such as addressing inequality,
promoting the interests of Africa and
a rules–based multilateral system in
line with the NDP
AU–EU Summit (15–19 February
2022)
The EU announced a 150–billion Euro
support package for Africa over a
seven–year period under the “Global
Gateway Initiative”
UN Environment Assembly’s
resumed Fifth Session (UNEA5.2)
Environment ministers adopted a
political declaration reconfirming the
collective commitment to sustainable
development and addressing
environmental challenges, including
the triple planetary crises of climate
change, biological diversity loss and
the COVID–19 pandemic

153ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
344th Session of the International
Labour Organisation (ILO)
Governing Body (14–15 March
2022)
The outcome of the Governing Body
vote was that the resolution was
adopted
42nd Session of the Inter–
Governmental Committee (IGC) on
Intellectual Property and Genetic
Resources, Traditional Knowledge
and Folklore of the WIPO
The 42nd Session of the IGC was
held in Geneva, Switzerland, from
28 February to 4 March 2022 in a
hybrid format. It considered various
issues on genetic resources and
associated traditional knowledge.
The session engaged in negotiations
on the provisions contained in the
Consolidated Document Relating to
Intellectual Property and Genetic
Resources (Consolidated Document),
with the aim of narrowing existing
gaps and reaching a consensus
on core issues. The Consolidated
Document reflected the status of
negotiations as at the end of the 35th
Session of the lGC, held in March
2018

154
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
60th Session of the UN
Commission on Social
Development, 7–16 February 2022
 » The 60th Session of the CSocD
was convened under the theme,
Inclusive and Resilient Recovery
from COVID–19 for Sustainable
Livelihoods, Well–being and
Dignity for All: Eradicating Poverty
and Hunger in all its Forms and
Dimensions to Achieve the 2030
Agenda
 » South Africa participated in
informal consultations on the three
abovementioned resolutions, which
South Africa negotiated through
the Africa Group. South Africa,
through its Permanent Mission to
the UN in New York City, facilitated
the resolution, “Social Dimensions
of the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development”
 » South Africa prepared for and
participated in the 59th Session of
the CSocD (UNSocD59), held from
8–17 February 2021, New York

155ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SYSTEM OF GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited
Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South Africa continued to advance
its positions on social issues as they
pertain to the following resolutions
that were negotiated during the 59th
Session:
 » socially just transition towards
sustainable development: the role
of digital technologies in social
development and well–being of all
 » future organisation and methods of
work of the CSocD
 » Social Development of New
Partnership for Africa’s
Development (NEPAD)
 » policies and programmes involving
youth
Compliance with
South Africa’s
international
reporting obligations
Number of reports
on South Africa’s
international
reporting obligations
New indicator Two reports on the implementation of
South Africa’s international reporting
obligations were submitted
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports on the implementation of
South Africa’s international reporting
obligations were submitted
South Africa’s
leadership and policy
advanced on the
regional, continental
and global stage
Number of
positions on
identified influential
multilateral bodies
where South Africa is
represented
New indicator Sixty positions on identified influential
multilateral bodies maintained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral bodies
maintained
Not achieved
Fifty–four positions on identified
influential multilateral bodies maintained
as at 31 December 2022
Six positions
expired during
the reporting
period
Regional
rotation
terms
concluded
during the
reporting
period

156
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
United and
politically
cohesive
continent
that works
towards shared
prosperity and
sustainable
development
Africa partnerships
recalibrated for
the effective
implementation of
the AU’s Agenda
2063
Number of
assessment reports
reflecting South
Africa’s participation
and the outcomes of:
 » AU structures and
processes
 » AU partnership and
 » implementation of
Agenda 2063
Not achieved
One assessment report on
continental partnerships
Two assessment
reports reflecting how
the outcomes of Africa
partnerships are aligned to
the AU Agenda 2063
Two assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
the outcomes of:
 » AU structures
and processes
 » AU partnership
and
 » implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two assessment reports reflecting
South Africa’s participation and the
outcomes of:
 » AU structures and processes
 » AU partnership and
 » implementation of Agenda 2063
was submitted
The 36th Ordinary Session of the
Assembly of AU Heads of State
and Government was held in
Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia, in February
2023
Outcomes of the meetings include:
 » The Union of Comoros was
endorsed as the Chair of the AU for
the year 2023 until the next summit
in February 2024
 » The assembly launched and
adopted the AU theme for the
year which is Acceleration of AfCFTA
Implementation
 » Three protocols on competition
policy, investment and intellectual
property rights (IPR) were adopted
by the assembly with the caveat
that a built–in agenda/annexes
must be developed. The Investment
Protocol was adopted with the
exclusion of articles 19 – 21, which
must be redrafted while the IPR
Protocol was adopted with the
understanding that there will be an
annex to clarify the harmonisation
of intellectual property governance
on the continent

157ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The 42nd Ordinary Session of the
Executive Council was held in
Addis Ababa, Federal Republic of
Ethiopia, in February 2023
Outcomes of the meetings included:
The need for efficient and prudent
management of the union’s
resources. Furthermore, the
Executive Council decided on further
deliberations on the new scale of
assessments for the period 2024 to
2026 until consensus is reached for
purposes of adoption at the 43rd
Ordinary Session of the Executive
Council, in July 2023
South Africa
contributes to
continental efforts
aimed at resolving
conflicts
Number of reports
on South Africa’s
commitments and
efforts towards peace
and stability on the
continent
Country obligations to SADC
and AU fulfilled include:
 » prepared for and
participated in the 34th
Ordinary Assembly of
the AU (virtual) from 6–7
February 2021
The AU Assembly welcomed
with appreciation the
“exemplary, timely, focussed
and effective leadership
to Africa’s response to
COVID–19” that was
demonstrated by the AU
Bureau, under the able
leadership of President
Ramaphosa
Two reports on South
Africa’s obligations to SADC
and AU fulfilled:
In terms of the financial
obligations, a part payment
towards South Africa’s
assessed contributions to
the AU was made in May
2021
The report reflected the
following engagements
where the President fulfilled
his obligations as the AU
Champion on COVID 19:
AU Conference on
Expanding Africa‘s Vaccine
Manufacturing
Two reports on
South Africa’s
commitments and
efforts towards
peace and stability
on the continent
Two reports on South Africa’s
commitments and efforts towards
peace and stability on the continent
were submitted
South Africa successfully participated
in the 14th Ordinary Meeting of the
Specialised Technical Committee
on Defence, Safety and Security
(STCDSS) and 17th Ordinary Meeting
of African Chiefs of Defence Staff
and Heads of Safety and Security,
held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from
9 – 12 May 2022, where South Africa’s
international relations policy positions
were advanced and reflected in the
decisions of the STCDSS meeting

158
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The heads of state and
government commended the
achievements of the AU in
response to the pandemic,
including the implementation
of the Africa Joint Continental
Strategy for COVID–19, the
establishment of the AU
COVID–19 Response Fund
and the formation of an
African Medicines Supplies
Platform, the Partnership to
Accelerate COVID–19 Testing,
the appointment of AU
special envoys for COVID–19
Response and the invaluable
work of the newly established
African Vaccines Acquisition
Task Team
As a result, the Assembly
appointed President
Ramaphosa as the Champion
for the COVID–19 vaccine
strategy and acquisition. In
his role as the Champion
for the COVID–19 vaccine
strategy, the President will
be expected to advocate for
equitable and timely access
to the COVID–19 vaccine
to all AU member states of
the AU, which will require
additional mechanisms to
ensure at least 60% of the
continent’s population is
vaccinated
The discussions centred on:
 » developing a short–term
strategy for Africa to
manufacture COVID–19
vaccines
 » strengthening the
continent’s capacity for
vaccine manufacturing
for future pandemics
 » bolstering regional
centres for excellence
and research hubs
Friends of Multilateralism
Heads of State Round
Table, organised by the
Independent Panel for
Pandemic Preparedness
and Response (IPPPR)
Round Table:
The discussions mainly
focussed on elevating
political leadership for
pandemic preparedness
and response options
for strengthened
global governance and
accountability
South Africa participated in the 32nd
Meeting of the Technical Support
Committee of the Peace, Security
and Cooperation (PSC) Framework
for the Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC) and the Great Lakes
Region, held in Nairobi, Kenya, in
November 2022. South Africa, as a
signatory party to the PSC Framework,
successfully advanced its international
relations policy positions on the
implementation of the framework
and the all–inclusive resolution of
the peace and security challenges in
the DRC and the Great Lakes region.
During the meeting, South Africa and
other members of the PSC Framework
deliberated on the security situation
in the Great Lakes region, especially in
the Eastern DRC with a view to finding
a lasting solution

159ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
The assembly also approved
South Africa’s proposal that
Africa adopts a common
position regarding the
proposed WTO TRIPS waiver
from certain provisions for
the prevention, containment
and treatment of COVID–19,
as contained in WTO
document
MasterCard Foundation and
Africa Centres for Disease
Control and Prevention
(Africa CDC) launch of
“Saving Lives, Saving
Economies, and Saving
Schools: Partnership to
Vaccinate Africa”
A partnership working
towards ensuring that
Africa has more access to
vaccines, improve public
health, economic recovery
and bringing life back to
normalcy
AU Bureau Meeting on
COVID–19 where updates
were provided on funding
and support for vaccines,
which included:
 » the World Bank Group
scaling up financing to
African countries for the
purchase of vaccines
from either COVAX or
from manufacturers
directly

160
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output Indicator Audited Actual
Performance 2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » A pipeline of 30 projects
amounting to about
US$2 billion for the
African continent was
being prepared under
the US$12–billion
vaccines programme
from the International
Development
Association (IDA) and
the International Bank
for Reconstruction and
Development
The African Development
Bank (AfDB) Group created
the COVID–19 Response
Facility to assist its regional
member countries in
fighting the pandemic

161ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
South–South
relations
strengthened
and
consolidated in
advancement
of national and
continental
priorities
South–South
cooperation
utilised to pursue
South Africa’s
National Interest
and advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
South–South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
100% alignment between the
outcomes of South–South
engagements and structure strategies
at the following meetings:
1. South Africa prepared for
and participated in a virtual
extraordinary NAM Summit on
COVID–19 on 4 May 2020.
The President delivered a statement
outlining South Africa and the AU’s
coordinated response to COVID–19.
A declaration was adopted as an
outcome of the summit. South Africa’s
substantial input into the declaration is
reflected in the final text COVID–19
2. South Africa prepared for and
participated in, along with 20
other member states of the
Indian Ocean Rim Association
(IORA), as well as all 10
IORA dialogue partners, in a
Special Virtual Meeting of the
Committee of Senior Officials
(CSO) on 21 May 2020.
The meeting was convened to assess
regional responses and discuss
possible collaborative efforts that
could be deployed in dealing with
the ongoing COVID–19 pandemic.
The meeting shared best practices
on national measures that are being
implemented by the member states
and dialogue partners in dealing with
the COVID–19 pandemic
Four reports on the
outcomes of the following
South–South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda:
Extraordinary NAM
Committee on Palestine
Where a Political
Declaration was adopted
as an outcome of the
meeting, in which the
committee expressed
concern regarding the
latest developments and
called for an end to the
illegal Israeli occupation and
the restoration of justice
and rights to the Palestinian
people. South Africa, as a
member of the committee,
reaffirmed its long–
standing solidarity with the
Palestinian people
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South–South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including
that of the African
Agenda
Four reports on the outcomes
of the following South–South
engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and interests,
including that of the African Agenda
were submitted
Meeting between DIRCO,
Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure, the Chinese
Embassy and the Chinese
team of experts on the Small
Harbours Development Project
(Forum on China–Africa
Cooperation [FOCAC] Priority
Project)
The Small Harbours Development
Project has been in the pipeline
for the past seven years. It is a
welcome development that the
Chinese team of experts will
conduct an evaluation of the
project. The implementation of
the project will be an excellent
opportunity to showcase
South–South cooperation,
with a specific focus on the
African Agenda, in terms of the
infrastructure development that will
create a conducive environment for
economic development

162
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
IORA Chairship
It is important to note that South
Africa handed over the Chairship to
the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for a
period of two years and Bangladesh
assumed the Vice–Chairship vacated
by the UAE for the same period of
2019 to 2021. South Africa, as the
outgoing Chair, presented the UAE, as
incoming Chair, with a Handing–over
Report with the objective to serve as
a guideline in fostering continuity and
ensuring conclusion on outstanding
matters. This was the first time that a
Handing–over Report was presented
by the outgoing IORA Chair
Following progress was reported: the
implementation of the IORA Action
Plan (2017–2021), the amendment
of the IORA Charter and its Rules
of Procedures, the streamlining of
the IORA Special Fund processes,
the strengthening of the IORA
Secretariat, an increase in member
states and dialogue partners and an
enhancement of the engagement
with the dialogue partners, as well
as the establishment of new working
groups and core groups for the
effective implementation of the IORA
Action Plan (2017–2021) and the
implementation of the Nelson Mandela
“Be the Legacy” Internship Programme
at the IORA Secretariat
The Second BRICS
Sherpa/Sous Sherpa
Meeting in preparation
for the meeting of
foreign ministers:
 » Negotiations that were
entered into by Sherpas
regarding the text for the
Joint Statement released
during the Foreign
Minister’s Meeting that
was held on 1 June
2021, where outcomes
and deliverables for the
meeting were negotiated
14th BRICS Summit
President Ramaphosa participated
in the virtual 14th BRICS Summit.
The BRICS leaders adopted the
Beijing Declaration, which included
the following:
 » standalone BRICS High–Level
Meeting on Climate Change
 » adoption of an action plan
for the implementation of
the agreement between the
Government of the BRICS states
on cooperation in the field of
culture
 » adoption of a BRICS Digital
Economy Partnership Framework
 » BRICS initiative on trade and
investment for sustainable
development
 » BRICS initiative on enhancing
cooperation on supply chains
 » BRICS strategy on food security
cooperation
 » BRICS initiative on denial of safe
haven to corruption
 » implementing procedures
of joint observation for the
BRICS remote sensing satellite
constellation

163ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
During South Africa’s Chairship, South
Africa will remain part of the IORA
Troika for the next two years, which will
consist of the UAE (Chair), Bangladesh
(Vice–Chair) and South Africa (Past–
Chair). This will also provide South
Africa with an opportunity to continue
influencing the strategic direction of
IORA
The outbreak of the COVID–19
pandemic emphasised the importance
and potential of IORA as a platform to
coordinate possible responses among
members and to adapt institutional
resources and mechanisms such
as the IORA Fund to form part of a
broader response to the challenge
3. BRICS:
In terms of the BRICS Strategy, it is
important to note developments
related to the New Development Bank
(NDB), including the appointment
of a new President of the bank and
developments regarding the expansion
of the NDB. In this regard, invitation
letters were issued to identified African
countries for the expansion of the
African region
The Fourth Standalone
Meeting of BRICS
Ministers of Foreign
Affairs/International
Relations:
 » adoption of a
media statement
and a standalone
Joint Statement
on Strengthening
and Reforming the
Multilateral System
during the Ministers’
Meeting
 » among others, further
discussions on global
and regional peace and
security
Opening Ceremony of the
BRICS Youth Summit, Shanghai
Track: China as Chair of BRICS
in 2022 hosted the BRICS Youth
Summit in Beijing. Some 300
representatives from 51 countries
and international organisations
attended the event virtually
and offline. The BRICS Youth
Summit focussed on discussions
regarding youth development
and entrepreneurship, city
planning, youth development and
youth policies with regard to city
planning projects as well as city
planning, incorporating youth and
sustainable living
IORA
The meeting of the IORA 24th CSO
and the 22nd CoM took place in
November. The meetings discussed
issues related to the Indian Ocean
Development Initiative, African
Workshop for the review of the
IORA and matters related to
cooperation in the Indian Ocean,
which also speak to the African
Agenda, including the African
Maritime Initiative
The First Indian Ocean Region
Information System (IORIS)
Conference for the Indian Ocean
took place in December

164
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
4. The First Extra–Ordinary
Inter–Sessional Organisation of
African, Caribbean and Pacific
States (OACPS)
Summit of Heads of State and
Government, chaired by the
President–in–Office of the OACPS
Summit, President Uhuru Kenyatta,
3 June 2020. The meeting discussed
the COVID–19 pandemic platform to
convey the coordinated AU continental
actions that have been undertaken
to combat the COVID–19 pandemic
and to request further actions and
solidarity from the international
community and development partners.
South Africa was represented at
the Special Summit by President
Ramaphosa who attended also in his
capacity as the Chairperson of the AU
for 2020
BRICS Meeting of Deputy
Foreign Ministers/Special
Envoys on the Middle
East and North Africa:
Statements made during
the meeting related mainly
to the situation in Iraq,
Syria, Libya, Lebanon and
the Persian Gulf, as well as
on the MEPP
India, Brazil, South Africa
(IBSA) Dialogue Forum:
The focus of the dialogue
included:
 » negotiations by the three
IBSA partners on the
draft text, particularly
the amendment of
paragraphs 23 and 24 on
the WTO and the G20,
which were amended to
represent the interests
of IBSA
 » announcement of new
amendments to be
effected with regard
to the IBSA inaugural
meeting of the IBSA
National Security
Advisers, as well as the
reassignment of the
Trade Investment Trade
Working Group (TWIG)
IORIS could be a neutral platform,
which supplements the work and
objectives strived for through
participation in the Djibouti Code
of Conduct (DCOC), which is a
formation of the International
Maritime Organisation. Increased
synergies between platforms of
communications would contribute
to better maritime security, which
in turn would create a conducive
environment for trade and
developments of the region
First Meeting of BRICS Sherpas
and Sous–Sherpas:
 » The Chairship of BRICS was
ceremoniously handed over
to South Africa by the Chinese
BRICS Sherpa
 » The meeting considered
South Africa’s priorities and
expectations as Chair of BRICS
for 2023
 » Consideration was given to how
BRICS members could support
the operationalisation of the
African Continental Free Trade
Area
 » The meeting reflected on the
institutional development of
BRICS
 » The meeting reflected on the
opportunities to build synergies
between BRICS and the G20,
particularly in the finance track

165ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
5. The 10th Bi–Annual Meeting of
the IORA Committee of Senior
Officials (CSO) was held virtually
from 29 June to 1 July 2020
The meeting discussed:
 » preparations for a new IORA Action
Plan for 2021–2025
 » a workshop to be scheduled to
discuss the strategic management
of IORA’s engagement with dialogue
partners
 » the vacancy of the position of IORA
Secretary–General for the period
2021 to 2024 and of the IORA Vice-
Chair for the period 2021 to 2023
 » the CSO was informed that the
EXPO 2020 and the commencement
of the Nelson Mandela Internship
Programme had been postponed
to 2021 due to the COVID–19
pandemic
The 11th Bi–annual
Meeting of the
Committee of Senior
Officials (CSO):
Discussions during
meetings focussed on:
 » a consensus regarding
the appointment of the
next IORA Secretary–
General that could not
be achieved
 » commitment by the
current Chair of the
Working Group, Sri
Lanka, to hold a fourth
meeting to finalise the
process of appointing the
incoming Chair
 » the acceptance of Russia
as an IORA Dialogue
Partner, which includes
the five P5 members
 » establishment of the
Tourism Resource Centre
(TRC) in Oman and the
creation of tourism
platforms for sharing
best practices

166
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
6. The BRICS Sherpa/Sous–Sherpa
meeting, under the Chairship of
the Russian Sherpa and Deputy
Foreign Minister, took place on
11 September 2020.
 » The Chair reiterated the proposed
date for the holding of the 12th
BRICS Summit virtually on 17
November 2020 and requested
member states to provide feedback
on the suitability of the date and the
proposed format
 » The Chair reiterated that the 12th
BRICS Summit should portray BRICS
unity and a firm commitment to UN
principles
 » The BRICS Young Diplomats Forum
was held physically in Kazan, Russian
Federation, from 21 to 24 October
2020
The meeting also discussed:
 » the expansion of the NDB, which
process had been delayed by the
COVID–19 pandemic
 » the importance of a BRICS Vaccine
Research and Development Centre
 » the importance of developing an
integrated early warning system
to mitigate the effects of future
pandemics
Third Meeting of the
Ad–Hoc Working Group
(AhWG) concerning the
eligibility and criteria
for selecting the new
Secretary–General of
IORA:
The objective of the
meeting was to endorse the
draft Terms of Reference
and annexures to be
recommended to the CoM
for approval
13th BRICS Summit:
India assumed the rotating
BRICS Chairship for 2021.
The theme for the year
was BRICS@15: lntra–
BRICS Cooperation for
Continuity, Consolidation
and Consensus. The Chair
identified four priorities
for its Chairship, namely:
reform of the multilateral
system, counter–terrorism
cooperation, the application
of digital and technological
solutions for achievement
of the SDGs and enhancing
people–to–people
exchanges

167ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
7. The Sixth Meeting of the BRICS
Deputy Ministers/Special Envoys
on the Middle East & North
Africa (MENA) from 25 to 26
August 2020
The meeting exchanged views and
shaped consensus on:
 » The current political and security
situation and the humanitarian
impact of the ongoing conflicts
affecting the two regions, focussing
on developments regarding the
situation in Libya and Eastern
Mediterranean; Syria; Lebanon;
and the Middle East Peace Process
(MEPP)
 » The situation in the Gulf, the conflict
in Yemen and the situation in Iraq
were discussed. They reaffirmed
that the crises in these regions
should be addressed through
political mechanisms and in
accordance with international law
and the UN Charter
Underlying their deliberations was the
principle that lasting peace could only
be achieved with due respect for the
independence, territorial integrity and
sovereignty of the countries in this
region
President Ramaphosa and
other BRICS leaders in
attendance commended
and welcomed the concrete
deliverables under the
BRICS Chairship in 2021
with reference to the
signing and/or adoption of:
 » the Agreement on
BRICS Cooperation on
Remote Sensing Satellite
Constellation
 » the finalisation of the
Agreement on BRICS
Cooperation and Mutual
Administrative Assistance
in Customs Matters
 » the BRICS Counter–
Terrorism Action Plan
 » Action Plan 2021–2024
for Agricultural
Cooperation
 » Innovation Cooperation
Action Plan 2021–2024
 » BRICS Alliance for Green
Tourism
 » BRICS Ministers
of Foreign Affairs/
International Relations
of the Standalone
Joint Statement
on Strengthening
and Reforming the
Multilateral System

168
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
8.  The Third Standalone Meeting of
the BRICS Ministers of Foreign
Affairs/International Relations
was held via videoconference
on 4 September 2020, under
the Chairship of the Russian
Federation
The meeting exchanged views on:
 » major international and regional
issues in the political, security,
economic, trade, financial and
sustainable development spheres
 » the progress in BRICS activities
under the 2020 Calendar of Events
and set of priorities and deliverables
set out by the Chair
India, as the incoming Chair of BRICS
in 2021, assured the meeting of its
commitment to continuity during its
Chairship, and to taking stock of BRICS
activities to promote efficiency
In response to the
COVID–19 pandemic,
discussions during the
summit, furthermore,
included:
 » post–COVID–19 tourism
and economic recovery
 » recognition of the
positive impact made
by the distribution of
COVID–19 vaccines to
conquer the pandemic
 » calls for BRICS members
to support the ongoing
negotiations with the
WTO regarding the
waiver of TRIPS, making
it possible for the
production of the vaccine
in Africa
 » continued
implementation of
the Strategy for BRICS
Economic Partnership
2025 and endorsing
the BRICS Statement on
Global Economic Outlook
and Responding to the
COVID–19 Crisis

169ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
9. South Africa prepared for
and participated in the IBSA
Ministerial Dialogue Forum, 16
September 2020
 » The key outcome of the meeting
was the adoption of a Joint IBSA
Ministerial Statement on Reform of
the UNSC
 » The release of the statement was
intended to coincide with the 75th
anniversary of the UN. All three
member states lauded the fact that
there would be continuity of an
IBSA member state on the UNSC
following South Africa’s departure
in 2020, to be followed by India in
2021 and Brazil in 2022. In this way,
IBSA’s shared values and mutual
interest in advancing a safer, more
peaceful and equitable world would
be insured during their terms in the
council
 » The meeting reaffirmed its support
for IBSA cooperation through the six
IBSA working groups, as well as the
new proposed areas of cooperation,
particularly on women’s economic
empowerment, agriculture and
traditional medicines
 » The meeting agreed to
operationalise the MoU on Skills
Development and Vocational
Training, a useful initiative in terms
of the Presidential Initiative on
Youth Employment
NAM Mid–term
Ministerial Conference
NAM members deliberated
on various global
challenges, including
 » reform of multilateral
institutions
 » COVID–19
 » Israeli–Palestine conflict
 » territorial disputes
 » climate change
 » threats to cyberspace
 » counter–terrorism
 » disarmament and non–
proliferation
 » unilateral coercive
measures
 » peacebuilding and
peacekeeping
 » the right to self–
determination
The NAM Midterm
Ministerial Conference
concluded with the
adoption of a Political
Declaration reiterating
the NAM’s commitment to
the purposes, principles
and provisions of the UN
Charter

170
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
10. South Africa prepared for and
participated in the virtual
Commonwealth Foreign Affairs
Ministers Meeting on 14
October 2020
 » The meeting focussed on the
response of the Commonwealth
to global challenges, particularly
around the global COVID–19
recovery plan, climate change and
small and vulnerable states, gender
and sexual–based violence against
women and girls, as well as social
tensions and racial discourse
 » During South Africa’s intervention,
it was noted that the Coronavirus
pandemic saw peoples across the
world extending a hand of solidarity
to others and that humanity was
galvanised into action. South Africa
believes that the Commonwealth
should, through solidarity, build a
common and inclusive future in the
aftermath of COVID–19
The declaration reaffirmed
the vision, principles and
objectives articulated in
Bandung (1955) and in
Belgrade (1961). The
Political Declaration further
underlined the collective
efforts of NAM to achieve
a world of peace, equality,
cooperation and well–being
for all
Report on the outcomes of
South–South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
Meeting of the NAM,
Belgrade, Serbia:
The 60th anniversary of the
First Meeting of the NAM,
held in Belgrade, Serbia,
provided opportunities to
highlight the importance of
multilateralism to address
common challenges
such as the COVID–19
pandemic. It also provided
an opportunity to stress
the importance of vaccine
nationalism and to
condemn sanctions against
countries i.e. Cuba, Iran,
Venezuela and Zimbabwe

171ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
11. Virtual 20th IORA Council of
Ministers (CoM) Meeting and
the 22nd IORA Committee of
Senior Officials (CSO) Meeting
from 15 to 17 December 2020
 » Deliberations included the
acceptance and welcoming of
new member states as well as the
acceptance of dialogue partners.
Among others, feedback on the
IORA priority areas and cross–
cutting areas was also discussed
 » The objective of the meeting was
to receive feedback from working
groups or core groups on the
progress achieved. Virtual platforms
were utilised to conduct meetings as
it proved challenging for the groups
to meet due to COVID–19
12. South Africa prepared for and
participated in the virtual 12th
BRICS Summit on 17 November
2020
 » BRICS partners called for global
access to a COVID–19 vaccine
and supported the need to
operationalise the BRICS Vaccine
Research and Development Centre.
The summit acknowledged the
important outcomes of the Russian
Chairship for 2020, including the
adoption of a revised Strategy
for BRICS Economic Partnership,
the adoption of a BRICS Counter–
Terrorism Strategy and the first
projects of the Energy Research
Cooperation Platform
The Peoples’ Republic
of China assumed the
rotating BRICS Chairship
for 2022 under the theme:
Foster High–quality BRICS
Partnership, Usher in
a New Era for Global
Development. China
introduced its priorities
during the Sherpa/Sous–
Sherpa Meeting.
The aims of China’s
Chairship were as follows:
 » consolidating the three
BRICS pillars: political and
security, economic and
financial, and people–to–
people cooperation
 » enhancing political
trust and intensifying
communication and
coordination on major
international and
regional issues
 » deepening practical
cooperation in all fields,
fully implementing the
outcomes of previous
summits and ensuring
that concrete results are
achieved
 » enhancing dialogue and
cooperation with other
emerging markets and
developing countries,
as well as international
organisations, to
broaden South–South
cooperation for common
development and
prosperity

172
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
13. Virtual Ministerial Meeting of
the NAM on the margins of
the 75th Session of UNGA on 9
October 2020
 » The meeting marked the 65th
anniversary of the adoption of the
Bandung Declaration
 » South Africa urged NAM member
states to continue to observe and
respect the Ten Bandung Principles
and purposes and the principles of
the UN Charter in the conduct of
international relations
 » South Africa highlighted its
commitment to contribute to
strengthening the unity and
solidarity of the movement and
in defending the interests of
developing countries, particularly in
supporting struggles for liberation
and self–determination, the pursuit
of world peace and prosperity and
the search for a more equitable and
just global order in accordance with
the purposes and principles of the
UN Charter and the Ten Bandung
Principles

173ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: SOUTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
14. The First Meeting of the BRICS
Sherpas/Sous–Sherpas under
the Indian Chairship of BRICS
for 2021, held virtually from 24
to 26 February 2021
 » The theme was introduced as
BRICS@15: lntra–BRICS Cooperation
for Continuity, Consolidation and
Consensus. The incoming Chair
expressed intention to lead a
review of BRICS institutions and
mechanisms to take stock of and
rationalise its activities to improve
coherence, efficacy and outcomes.
There was also a discussion on
the four areas of focus during
the current Chairship for which
the intention was to reform the
multilateral system, counter–
terrorism cooperation, application
of digital and technological solutions
for achievement of the SDGs and
enhancing people–to–people
exchanges
 » South Africa’s participation in
the above–mentioned meeting
was aligned with the strategic
objectives of South Africa’s BRICS
membership. BRICS cooperation
continues to provide tangible
benefits for South Africa through
cooperation in science, technology
and innovation, health and
education, as well as through
BRICS financing for infrastructure
development, capacity–building,
research, educational and skilling,
trade, investment and tourism
opportunities

174
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Relations with
the North
leveraged in
advancement
of national and
continental
priorities
North–South
cooperation
utilised to pursue
South Africa’s
National Interest
and advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
North–South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
100% alignment between the
outcomes of North–South
engagements and structure strategies
at the following meetings:
1. South Africa prepared for and
participated in the Virtual
14th South Africa–European
Union (EU) Ministerial Political
Dialogue (MPD) on 14 July 2020.
The MPD discussed a range of issues
relating to further enhancing the
South Africa–EU Strategic Partnership
within the challenging context of the
COVID–19 pandemic and its political
and socio–economic impact on South
Africa and the EU
2. South Africa prepared for
and participated in the
extraordinary G20 Foreign
Ministers’ Meeting convened
by the G20 Presidency of Saudi
Arabia, 3 September 2020.
The Minister addressed the meeting
in a national capacity and as Chair of
the AU. South Africa joined others in
emphasising that the G20 must lead
in ensuring that potential COVID–19
vaccines are shared in a fair, equitable
and affordable manner and called on
the G20 to support debt–distressed
African economies with the requisite
debt relief to emerge from the crisis
Two reports on the
outcomes of North–South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda:
The Outreach Session
of the G7 Summit, held
in Carbis Bay, United
Kingdom.
During the event, the
President called on G7
countries to help bridge
the funding gap for testing,
treatment and vaccination
against COVID–19. The
President also called for
support for the TRIPS
waiver, which would
allow for wider vaccine
production to fight the
COVID–19 pandemic
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North–South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
interests, including
that of the African
Agenda
Two reports on the outcomes
of North–South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African Agenda
were submitted
10th EU–South Africa Political
and Security Dialogue Forum
(PSDF), in September 2022.
The PSDF discussed issues
relating to political and security
coordination, i.e. European
Security and Defence Cooperation;
cooperation in multilateral fora,
including cybercrime, disarmament
and non–proliferation; UN
reform; AU–EU cooperation,
counterterrorism and the fight
against violent extremism, as
well as IFFs. Agenda topics on
regional developments included
Mozambique/Cabo Delgado,
Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) and Zimbabwe
The 15th South Africa–EU
Ministerial Political Dialogue
(MPD) was held in January 2023.
Discussions covered a number
of issues; including peace and
security issues affecting the globe,
Africa and Europe; trade relations;
as well as education, science and
technology cooperation. A report
from the JCC, which was held in
South Africa in December 2022
and the preparation of the Eighth
South Africa– EU Summit, which is
expected to be held in 2023, were
discussed.

175ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
3. South Africa prepared for and
participated in the virtual
G20 Riyadh Leaders’ Summit
and associated Fourth Sherpa
Meeting under the G20
Presidency of the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia from 17–22
November 2020.
Key developmental outcomes for
South Africa and Africa that received
the endorsement of G20 leaders
included, among others:
 » a commitment by the G20 to fight
poverty and inequality
 » the adoption of the G20 Debt
Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI)
 » agreement on equitable and fair
distribution of COVID–19 vaccines
 » support for Africa in the
implementation of the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development and
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda
 » continued support for the G20
Partnership with Africa, including the
Compact with Africa
 » the G20 initiative on Industrialisation
in Africa
 » continued focus on Illicit Financial
Flows (IFFs)
 » the important endorsement of the
G20 Support to COVID–19 Response
and Recovery in Developing
Countries, especially Africa, and
the Financing for Sustainable
Development Framework
G20 Foreign and
Development Ministerial
Meeting:
The key issues discussed
during these meetings
included global governance
and multilateralism
as the appropriate
platforms for addressing
global challenges such
as COVID–19 and
for promoting global
economic recovery. Further
discussions were held on
Africa and food security.
The meeting concluded
with the adoption of two
important documents:
The Matera Declaration,
among others, seeks to
mobilise “political, financial,
policy and technical support
based on the needs and
demands of developing
countries, with a focus
on smallholder farmers,
women and youth”.
The declaration further
recognises that poverty
alleviation and food security
are key to ending hunger
and reducing socio–
economic inequalities and
for achieving SDG 2 on zero
hunger by 2030
The visiting commissioners
met with their South African
counterparts for bilateral
discussions. These include the co–
signing of the new EU–South Africa
Multi-annual Indicative Programme
until 2027 between Commissioner
Jutta Urpilainen and Finance
Minister Enoch Godongwana
and the launch of a €100 million
regional teachers training
programme. The outcomes of the
15th South Africa–EU MPD will feed
into the preparations for the Eighth
Summit to be hosted by President
Cyril Ramaphosa in 2023
The South Africa–EU Dialogue
Facility Programme Steering
Committee Meeting and closing
event of the South Africa–EU
Dialogue Facility were held in
March 2023.
The Dialogue Facility Programme
Steering Committee agreed
that April 2023 would be the
closure of Phase II with reports,
achievements, lessons learnt and
planning of a way forward for the
possible upcoming Phase III of the
programme

176
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
4. South Africa prepared for and
participated in the First G20
Sherpa Meeting (virtual), held
from 21–22 January 2021.
The first G20 Sherpa Meeting under
the Italian Presidency was of strategic
importance as it allowed the incoming
Presidency to articulate their theme
and priorities for the year, provided
the platform for “agenda setting” by
G20 members on key global issues
that are deemed strategic for the
G20 to address and provided the
opportunity for South Africa to ensure
that the strategic priorities for South
Africa, Africa and developing countries
broadly are reflected in the Agenda of
the incoming Presidency.
South Africa, in its interventions,
therefore focussed on affordable
access to vaccines, debt relief, IFFs and
an equal treatment of the adaptation,
mitigation and financing of global goals
under the UNFCCC´s Paris Agreement
The second, a communiqué
adopted by development
ministers, recognises the
challenges in Africa, least
developed countries (LDCs)
and small island states
and that overcoming the
pandemic is a precondition
for stable and lasting global
recovery. Gender equality
and the economic inclusion
of women and youth,
as well as food security,
are key pillars of South
Africa’s Economic Recovery
and Reconstruction
Plan. In correlation, the
focus of the G20 on food
security as a key driver
for addressing inequality
and poverty resonates
with the domestic
objective of addressing
the triple challenges of
unemployment, inequality
and poverty. In the context
of advancing national
priorities, South Africa
succeeded in reflecting
African priorities, such as
IFFs and deleting references
to greener recovery
Report on the outcomes of
North–South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda

177ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Second G20 Sherpa
Meeting:
 » The agenda slanted
towards emission
reduction, focus on
the green recovery,
encouraging trade
and climate change
commitments outside
the relevant multilateral
structures and to
exclude the means of
implementation support
for developing countries
 » Emerging market
economies should
continue to highlight
the centrality of the
multilateral system and
the need to find inclusive
solutions to global
challenges
 » The Italian G20
Presidency indicated
their determination
to elevate the global
importance of the
G20 and the need for
this formation to take
a lead on a number
of global matters
such as pandemic
preparedness, climate
change, international tax
cooperation and trade

178
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » On health, the proposal
to establish a Health
Board, similar to the
Financial Stability Board,
which was established
by the G20 during the
2008 financial crisis,
South Africa indicated
that it was not able to
support the creation
or endorsement of
structures dealing with
pandemic preparedness
outside the WHO or UN
processes
 » South Africa encourages
the G20 to support
WHO–led processes
that are universal and
inclusive and the G20
should not duplicate
work done at multilateral
organisations
 » South Africa and India
also reiterated their
call on G20 members
to support negotiation
aimed at securing a
temporary waiver on
the intellectual property
rights on COVID–19
vaccines

179ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » On the world economy
and finance track, the
agreement by finance
ministers on a global
minimum tax was
hailed as an “historical
achievement”
 » On debt, South Africa
called on the G20 to
support an ambitious
SDR reallocation,
including the target of at
least US$100 billion by
October 2021, to support
vulnerable countries,
including Africa
 » On the issue of carbon
border tax, China, Brazil
Saudi Arabia and South
Africa were united in
their opposition, stating
that this should be
negotiated at multilateral
level and not be imposed
unilaterally
 » On climate change,
South Africa rejected
the unilateral
setting of targets
outside multilateral
environmental
agreements, stating that
to enhance our ambition
and achieve our UNFCCC
and Convention on
Biological Diversity goals,
developing countries
require massively scaled–
up support in the form of
finance, technology and
capacity–building

180
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Third G20 Sherpa
Meeting:
During the meeting, South
Africa:
 » called for the deletion
of the climate targets
that seek to pre–judge
multilateral negotiations,
including the net–zero
target by 2050; 30%
methane gas reduction
target by 2030; and the
30% of land and oceans
protection target
 » restated its position that
the WHO should be at
the centre of any new
pandemic preparedness
structures
 » called for the deletion
of the “commitment
to end the provision
of international public
finance for unabated coal
power generation”
 » joined India and other
developing countries in
calling for greater access
to vaccines, including
manufacturing capacity
and for G20 support for
WTO negotiations on a
TRIPS waiver

181ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » introduced language
reiterating the G20’s
continued support
for the G20 Initiative
on Supporting the
Industrialisation in Africa
and LDCs, G20 Africa
Partnership and the
Compact with Africa, and
addressing IFFs
 » pushed for language
that reaffirms that trade
measures taken to
address climate change
must conform to our
WTO commitments and
must not constitute
a means of arbitrary
or unjustifiable
discrimination or a
disguised restriction on
international trade
 » called for balanced
language and digital
free flow of data to be
balanced with data for
development
 » supported current
language on women
empowerment and
introduced language
on the prevention of
gender violence during
lockdowns

182
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Sixth AU–EU Summit,
Brussels (17–18 February
2022)
The summit was
convened with the aim
of strengthening and
recalibrating the economic
and strategic partnership
between African and
European countries
The major achievements of
the Sixth AU–EU Summit as
reflected in the declaration
on a joint vision for 2030,
which was adopted under
silent procedure at its
conclusion. It includes the
following:
 » committing to respond to
the immediate challenge
of the COVID–19 crisis
by ensuring a fair and
equitable access to
vaccines, among others,
as well as the macro–
economic effects of the
crisis on the African
continent for economic
recovery
 » the announcement
of the Africa–Europe
Investment Package
of at least €150 billion,
which is composed of an
investment, a health and
an education package

183ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
 » committing to renewed
and enhanced
cooperation for peace
and security between
Africa and the EU
 » committing to revitalise
the work of the joint AU–
EU–UN Tripartite Task
Force in finding a durable
solution to asylum
seekers, refugees and
vulnerable groups
 » committing to work
together to promote
effective multilateralism
within the rules–based
international order, with
the UN at its core
 » committing to follow
up on the AU–EU
engagements to monitor
the implementation
of the commitments
undertaken during AU–
EU summits

184
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: NORTH–SOUTH COOPERATION
Outcome Output Output
Indicator
Audited Actual Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance 2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23 Actual achievement 2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons
for
Deviations
Tokyo International
Conference on African
Development (TICAD)
Ministerial Meeting
(virtual) (26–27 March
2022)
The main outcomes of the
TICAD Ministerial Meeting
are Japan’s commitment to:
 » promoting private
investment in Africa,
including through
leveraging digital
technology
 » continued support
for ensuring access to
vaccines in Africa through
the improvement of cold
chain equipment, and
promoting a wide range
of initiatives in the health
sector to accelerate
preparations for future
health crises
 » strengthening maritime
law–enforcement
capabilities in Africa
 » supporting reform of
the UNSC based on the
Common African Position

185ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Linking performance to budgets
Actual expenditure for 2022/23 amounted to R558.1 million against final appropriation of R559.6 million, which represented an underspending of R1.5 million. The
programme overspent on compensation of employees was due to the depreciation of the Rand against major foreign currencies.
Subprogramme expenditure
Subprogramme name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Global System of Governance  393 667  393 538  129  355 140  343 903  11 237
Continental Cooperation  86 942  85 920  1 022  66 244  58 202  8 042
South–South Cooperation  5 726  5 650  76  5 095  4 462  633
North–South Dialogue  73 296  73 031  265  67 115  65 689  1 426
Total  559 631  558 139  1 492  493 594  472 256  21 338
Strategy to overcome areas of under performance
Area of under performance Strategy to overcome area of under performance
Sixty positions on identified influential multilateral bodies maintained. Continue to promote the uptake of South Africans to international positions, including
through actively promoting all South Africa’s candidatures.

186
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
4.4. Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services
Purpose: Communicate South Africa’s role and position in international
relations in the domestic and international arenas and provide State
Protocol Services
Subprogramme 4.1 Public Diplomacy
Purpose: Promote a positive projection of South Africa’s image
Subprogramme 4.2 State Protocol and Consular Services
Purpose: Provide protocol and ceremonial services
Outcomes:
 » Domestic and foreign audiences informed of South Africa’s foreign policy
objectives and priorities
 » Improved compliance with the diplomatic regulatory framework
4.4.1. Public Diplomacy
South Africa’s public diplomacy (PD) is predicated on the apex government policy
as encapsulated in the National Development Plan’s (NDP) vision. The NDP calls for
the development and implementation of a robust and sophisticated PD strategy.
The NDP states that: “It is important to develop a more sophisticated Public
Diplomacy Strategy that encompasses more than a communications function.
Public Diplomacy should use new media platforms, forums and social networks, as
well as people–to–people initiatives”. The strategy has been developed and served
as a guide to our PD activities undertaken during the period under review.
The strategy addresses the need for the implementation and management of
South Africa’s reputation through the utilisation of people–to–people initiatives
and new media platforms. The strategy uses a three–pronged approach and aims
to set the agenda, create and strengthen own platforms and promote the South
African Brand and the Department of International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) to stakeholders. This is achieved through targeted platforms that promote
the National Interest of our country through understanding, informing and
influencing foreign and local audiences. To enhance implementation of this strategy
and intergovernmental relations, the Branch: PD forms part of government’s
International Cooperation, Trade and Security Cluster in which it plays an important
role in enabling the cluster to communicate with one voice.
We have continued to enhance public understanding of our foreign policy
engagements by both local and international audiences. Political principals utilise
various platforms such as media briefings and public participation programmes
(PPPs) to reach out to the public at home and abroad and stimulate debates
through dialogue and public lectures on various topical issues in the purview of
international relations.
Furthermore, principals articulated South Africa’s positions on international
developments through well–researched opinion pieces, which were publicised to
ensure broader reach of the public. Similarly, the department and in particular
principals, remained accessible to the public through media engagements during
which topical issues were extrapolated for the benefit of our audience. In the
last financial year, the Branch: PD issued 117 media statements and 12 opinion
pieces to respond to the narrative around the issues of international relations and
national developments.
Various activities and initiatives such as the Diplomatic Fun Fair and the Ubuntu
Awards were implemented in 2022/23 to promote Brand South Africa and to
continue enhancing public understanding of South Africa’s foreign policy. The
Ubuntu Awards were launched in 2015 to provide a platform for DIRCO to promote
its values and objectives, by honouring men and women who have contributed
to promoting a positive image of South Africa, domestically and internationally.
These South Africans are recognised for their international work in flying the South
African flag high.
Large numbers of South Africans continue to travel around the world for various
purposes, including tourism, business and employment. When they find themselves

187ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
in distress, either as a result of natural or man–made disasters, South African
missions are expected to provide them with consular services. In this regard, the
branch continues to raise the awareness and importance of our consular services.
The current digital revolution and technological advances continue to change and
influence the manner in which information is shared and made readily available
to the public and stakeholders. The branch has ensured that its PD Strategy is
responsive to this ever-changing climate through investment in new technologies.
During the period under review, the Branch: PD broadened the use of social media,
which has proved to be effective and beneficial in the execution of its mandate.
These include platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. With
the increased number of followers, these media have attracted a lot of interest
and are also used to complement Ubuntu Radio, which remains a key medium
of communication in stimulating dialogue on issues that affect South Africa, the
continent and partners across the globe.
The branch continues to value our diplomatic missions as critical components of
our foreign-policy implementation and acknowledges that they play a pivotal role
in branding and marketing the country. Through this component, the branch sends
key messages regarding government’s position in response to both national and
international developments.
During the year under review, the Branch: PD continued to strengthen its working
relationships with like-minded institutions such as Brand SA, South African Tourism,
etc. to chart a uniquely South African image that aims to bring much-needed
investment and tourism opportunities to our shores.
4.4.2.  State Protocol and Consular services
The department continued to facilitate the arrival and departure of dignitaries
through the state protocol lounges, provided hospitality services to the President,
Deputy President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International Relations and
Cooperation and rendered protocol support to the second and third spheres of
government. During the period under review, protocol services were rendered
during 21 high-level incoming visits and 36 high-level outgoing visits.
DIRCO continued to provide consular services on behalf of the South African
Government to South African nationals, both individuals and bodies corporate,
abroad in accordance with the relevant legislation, policies, directives, guidelines,
codes, customary international law and practice. During the 2022/23 financial
year, 822 consular cases were attended to. These included extraditions, prisoners
abroad, return of mortal remains and service of civil process, to cite a few.
The department, as one of its core service-delivery areas, authenticates/legalises
public documents issued across all spheres of government and, among others,
facilitates the movement of exports and imports in the manufacturing, mining and
energy sector (i.e. industrial production), as well as the agricultural and construction
sectors. The legalisation of public documents promotes economic growth and, as a
result, the creation of employment opportunities in South Africa.
Linked to the above is the legalisation of public documents, such as educational
certificates for South African citizens seeking employment abroad, which results
in skills transfer and the transmission of monthly remittances to the country by
South African citizens employed abroad. Legalised public documents effectively
assist enterprises, South African citizens and foreign nationals in the presentation
of appropriate and validated South African public documents across the globe. The
department authenticated/legalised 55 005 public documents during the 2022/23
financial year for use abroad.
South Africa remains one of the countries with the highest concentration of
diplomats in the world. Regularising over 10 000 diplomats, including their
dependants, is a hugely bureaucratic function but is being dealt with in a highly
proficient manner by a skilled and versatile team. The department continued to
facilitate and accredit all aspects of the resident Diplomatic Corps in terms of the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations as well as the Vienna Convention on
Consular Relations.

188
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
Domestic and
foreign audiences
informed of
South Africa’s
foreign policy
objectives and
priorities
Rapid and
timeous support
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Number of
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Twenty–five
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Sixty–four key
messages were
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Sixty–three key
messages were
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Fifty–four
additional key
messages were
distributed
Additional key
messages were
distributed in
response to
both national
and international
developments
Platforms utilised
to inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic
and international
audiences
Number of
platforms utilised
to inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic
and international
audiences
Twelve PPPs
held by political
principals where
audiences were
engaged via
webinars on
domestic and
international
developments
Twelve PPPs held
where audiences
were engaged
via webinars on
domestic and
international
developments
Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs held
where audiences
were engaged
on domestic and
international
developments
Sixteen opinion
pieces published
Twelve opinion
pieces published
Nine opinion
pieces published
Twelve opinion
pieces published
Three additional
opinion pieces
published
Additional opinion
pieces published
in response to
both national
and international
developments

189ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
SUBPROGRAMME: STATE PROTOCOL AND CONSULAR SERVICES
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
Improved
compliance with
the diplomatic
regulatory
framework
Professional
protocol services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits
Percentage of
requests for
protocol services
rendered to all
in and outgoing
State, Official and
Working Visits
2100% (18) of
protocol services
rendered to all in
and outgoing State,
Official and Working
Visits
 » Incoming: 15
 » Outgoing: 3
100% (42) of protocol
services rendered to
all in and outgoing
State, Official and
Working Visits:
 » • Incoming: 23
 » • Outgoing: 19
100% of protocol
services rendered
to all incoming and
outgoing visits
100% (57) of
protocol services
rendered to all
in and outgoing
State, Official and
Working Visits:
 » • Incoming: 21
 » • Outgoing: 36
2  This is the correct reflection after the discrepancies picked up during quarterly reporting were cleared.

190
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
SUBPROGRAMME: STATE PROTOCOL AND CONSULAR SERVICES
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Reasons for
Deviations
consular
servicesrendered
Percentage
of requests
for consular
assistance
rendered
100% (30 779) cases
reported to DIRCO
were responded to
as per the Service-
delivery Charter:
 » citizens in
distress: 30 458
 » whereabouts:
three
 » mortal remains:
124
 » adoptions: 0
 » abductions: five
 » detainees/
prisoners: 24
 » services of civil
process: 149
 » extraditions: 16
South African citizens
in distress statistics
include 30 383
citizens who were
repatriated due
to the COVID–19
pandemic
100% (740) cases
reported to DIRCO
were responded to
as per the Service-
delivery Charter:
 » citizens in
distress: 250
 » whereabouts: 17
 » mortal remains:
161
 » adoptions: 0
 » abductions: nine
 » detainees/
prisoners: 37
 » services of civil
process: 225
 » extraditions: 41
100% of consular
services rendered
100% (822) cases
reported to DIRCO
were responded to
as per the Service-
delivery Charter:
 » citizens in
distress: 125
 » whereabouts:
15
 » mortal
remains: 205
 » adoptions: one
 » abductions:
four
 » detainees/
prisoners: 102
 » services of civil
process: 338
 » extraditions: 32
Legalised services
rendered
Percentage
of documents
legalised
100% (37 551) of
documents legalised
100% (54 816) of
documents legalised
100% of
documents
legalised
100% (55 005)
of documents
legalised

191ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Linking performance with budgets
Actual expenditure for 2022/23 amounted to R335.8 million against final appropriation of R336.8 million, which represented an underspending of R1.0 million. The
programme overspent on goods and services due to the depreciation of the Rand against major foreign currencies.
Subprogramme expenditure
Subprogramme name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Public Diplomacy  69 267  83 571 (14 304)  62 467  58 905  3 562
Protocol Services  267 555  252 237  15 318  231 372  203 642  27 730
Total  336 822  335 811  1 014  293 839  262 547  31 292

192
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
4.5. Programme 5: International Transfers
Purpose: Fund membership fees and transfer to international organisations
Subprogramme 5.1: Departmental agencies
Purpose: Facilitate transfer of funds to the public entity
Subprogramme 5.2: Membership contributions
Purpose: Facilitate transfers to international organisations
Outcomes: Strengthen multilateralism through membership fees and contributions
Outcome Output Output Indicator
Audited Actual
Performance
2020/21
Audited Actual
Performance
2021/22
Planned Annual
Target 2022/23
Actual
Achievement
2022/23
Deviation
from Planned
Target
to Actual
Achievement
2021/22
Reasons for
Deviations
To strengthen
multilateralism
through
membership fees
and contributions
South Africa
fulfilling its
continental
and global
responsibilities
Number of
quarterly reports
on payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
New indicator Four quarterly
reports on payment
of South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
amounting to
R742 171 million
Four quarterly
reports on payment
of South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on payment
of South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
amounting to
R773.9 million
Linking performance with budgets
Actual expenditure for 2022/23 amounted to R773.9 million against final appropriation of R813.4 million, which represented an underspending of R39.6 million. The
underspending is primarily attributable to unspent funds earmarked for the South African Development Partnership Agency (SADPA) due to non–operationalisation of
SADPA and membership fees for African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States that were discontinued.

193ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Subprogramme expenditure
Subprogramme name
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
Final
Appropriation
Actual
Expenditure
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
 Departmental Agencies  61 370  49 699  11 671  59 798  48 546  11 252
 Membership Contribution  752 054  724 172  27 882  689 302  629 287  60 015
Total  813 424  773 871  39 553  749 100  677 833  71 267
5. TRANSFER PA YMENTS
5.1. Transfer payments to public entities
Name of Public Entity Key Outputs of the Public Entity
Amount transferred
to the Public Entity
R’000
Amount spent by the
Public Entity Achievements of the Public Entity
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF)
The objective of the Fund is
to contribute to an integrated
democratic, peaceful, and
prosperous continent. Therefore,
the Fund enables the South African
Government to identify and fund
projects or provide loans.
The objective of the Fund is
to contribute to an integrated
democratic, peaceful, and
prosperous continent. Therefore,
the Fund enables the South African
Government to identify and fund
projects or provide loans.
 49 699 (34 274) The entity did not achieve all its set
targets as per the Annual Performance
Plan. However, despite not having a
target for the year under socio-economic
development, the below project was
funded during the year under review:

194
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Name of Public Entity Key Outputs of the Public Entity
Amount transferred
to the Public Entity
R’000
Amount spent by the
Public Entity Achievements of the Public Entity
The objectives of the ARF are as
follows:
 » Cooperation between the Republic
of South Africa and other countries,
in particular African countries,
 » Promotion of democracy and good
governance,
 » Prevention and resolution of
conflict,
 » Socio-economic development and
integration,
 » Humanitarian assistance and
 » Human resource development.
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT FOR INTERNALLY DISPLACED
PERSONS (IDPs) IN CABO DELGADO,
MOZAMBIQUE
President Cyril Ramaphosa of the Republic
of South Africa made a pledge at the SADC
Summit held in Malawi during January 2022
to assist the Republic of Mozambique with
the humanitarian crisis in Cabo Delgado
province. The Agricultural Research Council
(ARC) was appointed by the ARF as an
implementing agent for the agricultural
development support for Internally
Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the Cabo
Delgado province of Mozambique.
The project will provide 4 000 Crop
Production Technology Kits over a period
of two years and continued monitoring of
the project will continue for a further three
years to ensure sustainability.
This project is in line with the African
Union theme of the year 2022, “Nutrition:
Strengthening resilience in nutrition and
food security on the African continent.”

195ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
5.2. Transfer payments to all organisations other than public entities
The table below reflects the transfer payments made for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Name of
transferee Type of organisation
Purpose for which
the funds were
used
Did the dept.
comply with s
38 (1) (j) of the
PFMA
Amount
transferred Amount spent
by the entity
Reasons for
the funds
unspent by the
entity(R’000)
DIRCO African Union Membership fees Yes  311 838
DIRCO Group of 77 Countries Membership fees Yes  243
DIRCO India–Brazil–South Africa Trust Fund Membership fees Yes  18 415
DIRCO Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Membership fees Yes  894
DIRCO United Nations Development Programme Membership fees Yes  16 322
DIRCO Commonwealth of Nations Membership fees Yes  6 966
DIRCO Southern African Development Community Membership fees Yes  147 338
DIRCO United Nations Membership fees Yes  185 806
DIRCO Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention Membership fees Yes  410
DIRCO Comprehensive Nuclear–Test–Ban Treaty Membership fees Yes  5 227
DIRCO Indian Ocean Rim Research Centre Membership fees Yes  437
DIRCO Perez–Guerrero Trust Fund Membership fees Yes  98
DIRCO South Centre Capital Fund Membership fees Yes  1 718
DIRCO Humanitarian AID Voluntary projects Yes  25 198
DIRCO Permanent Court of Arbitration Membership fees Yes  237
DIRCO Asia–Africa Legal Consultative Organisation Membership fees Yes  289
DIRCO Bureau of International Exposition Membership fees Yes  1 811
DIRCO International Tribunal for the Law of the sea Membership fees Yes  924
It is impractical to report on amount spent by the entity and reasons for the funds unspent by the entity as this expenditure relates to membership fees and voluntary
contributions for various international organisations which also receives funding from other countries.

196
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The table below reflects the transfer payments, which were budgeted for in the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023, but no transfer payments were made.
Name of
transferee Type of organisation
Purpose for
which the funds
were to be used
Amount
budgeted for
Amount
transferred Reasons why funds were not transferred
(R’000) (R’000)
DIRCO African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States Membership fees 6 568  – Membership for African, Caribbean and Pacific
Group of States that was discontinued
DIRCO United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea Membership fees 916  – Membership fees will be paid in 2023/24 financial
year in order to align financial years.
6. CONDITIONAL GRANTS
None.
7. DONOR FUNDS
None.
8. CAPITAL INVESTMENT
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) is the
custodian of state–owned immovable assets abroad. It is critical for DIRCO to have
a functional property portfolio that will ensure that the department delivers on its
diplomatic mandate abroad.
The property portfolio has a huge maintenance backlog due to a lack of proper
planned maintenance. The department is currently implementing a number of
infrastructure projects as interventions to address the maintenance backlog and
to ensure that the condition of the state–owned property portfolio is sustainable
and supports Service-delivery by missions abroad.
In addition, the department also invested in the refurbishment and refresh of ICT
infrastructure to replace the obsolete and unsupported equipment.
8.1. Capital investment, maintenance and asset management
plan
Section 5(1)(a) of the Government Immovable Asset Act (GIAMA) Act, 2007 (Act 19
of 2007) states that the Accounting Officer of the custodian of immovable assets
must ensure that the immovable assets are used efficiently and effectively. To give
effect to the Act, the department has an approved property management strategy
that informs the planning and execution of new acquisitions, maintenance and
disposal of immovable assets. The department is developing the Custodian Asset
Management Plan that will provide details on the lifecycle immovable asset plan,
which will be finalised in the 2023/24 financial year.
The department has implemented the following infrastructure projects in the
2022/23 financial year:
Planning for new construction projects
The department prioritised the planning of the construction of facilities in three
missions: New Delhi (India), Luanda (Angola) and Gaborone (Botswana). In the
2022/23 financial year, the department collaborated with the Government Technical

197ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Advisory Centre (GTAC) as an implementing agent to support the execution of
capital projects. The bids for the appointment of the professional teams in New
Delhi and South Africa were advertised by the end of March 2023.
The professional teams will commence with the feasibility studies, designs and
tender documentation for the appointment of the contractor by the end of the
third quarter. The appointment of the contractor will be finalised in the fourth
quarter of the 2023/24 financial year.
In Luanda, the service provider appointed to conduct the condition assessment
is finalising the report, which will provide guidance on the construction project
approach. The Botswana project was halted as the Government of Botswana has
intentions to acquire the state–owned land parcel from DIRCO due to security
concerns.
Renovation and refurbishment projects
The department prioritised seven renovation projects in the following missions:
Mbabane (eSwatini), Copenhagen (Denmark), Austria (Vienna), Rome (Italy), Ottawa
(Canada), Kinshasa (DRC) and Windhoek (Namibia). The condition assessment was
done in the previous financial year and the outcome informed the renovation
work currently underway. Renovation projects were completed in Namibia, Vienna,
Canada and Kinshasa. The tender for the Mbabane renovation project has been
advertised and bids were received. The terms of reference for the renovation
of the Official Residence in Copenhagen was finalised in March 2023. The Rome
basement project is currently being implemented while feasibility for alternative
use is under consideration.
Maintenance and condition assessment projects
Thirty–three maintenance projects were completed at the end of the 2022/23
financial year to address the maintenance backlog. About a dozen projects have
been carried over to the 2023/24 financial year as they were implemented late in
the financial year.
To address the maintenance challenges, condition assessments have been
commissioned for 17 missions and reports have been received for the following:
Rome, Brasilia (two), Maseru, Lilongwe, Namibia and the Hague. The following
missions are in the process of conducting condition assessments: London, Madrid,
Lisbon, New York, Brussels, Luanda, Tel Aviv, Maputo, Mbabane, Harare and Madrid.
The condition assessments will inform the prioritisation projects for renovation and
maintenance work in the 2023/24 financial year. The department plans to conduct
23 condition assessments in 2023 to ensure these are done for all state–owned
properties.
Disposal projects
The department commenced with the disposal process of 18 superfluous
properties. Twelve properties in Namibia, Bonn, Zurich, Funchal and Malawi have
been advertised and bids evaluated. The proposals will be considered by the Bid
Adjudication Committee in the first quarter of 2023. The valuation reports for Milan
have been received. The advertisement for Banjul is in progress. The valuation of
the property in Paraguay will be finalised in June 2023.
The department appointed professional teams for the planning for new construction
in India and Luanda and for the renovation projects that will include the upgrading
of plumbing and the electrical systems for missions abroad. The implementation
of the projects to upgrade the plumbing and electrical systems will impact on the
current capital expenditure as additional resources will be required.
The current condition of the state–owned property portfolio cannot be confirmed
but will be established once the condition assessments are finalised. The condition
rating will be documented in the Custodian Asset Management Plan.
To ensure the Asset Register is updated, the department has conducted surveys
for all missions to provide property information, including utilisation and vacancy
levels. The missions were also requested to submit maintenance plans based on
property inspections that are conducted during the financial year. The information
will also be used to update the Asset Register.

198
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
No Project Name Project Description Outputs Project Start
Date
Project
Completion
Date
Total
Estimated
Project Cost
Current Year
Expenditure
1 Disposals of superfluous properties
at various missions
Disposals of properties Properties disposed 2021/22 2025/26 R7 300 000 R1 908 328
2 New Delhi: Feasibility and planning
for construction of new Chancery
and Official Residence
Planning and construction of
Chancery and Official Residence
New Chancery and Official
Residence constructed
2022/23 2024/25 R35 000 000 R157 082
3 Luanda: Feasibility and planning for
construction of Official Residence
Planning and construction of
Official Residence
New Official Residence 2023/24 2024/25 R10 000 000 R1 442 750
4 Copenhagen: Renovation of the
Chancery and Official Residence
Project
Renovation of the Chancery and
Official Residence
Properties renovated 2023/24 2024/25  R2 995 000 0.00
5 Vienna: Renovation of the Chancery
and Official Residence Project
Renovation of the Official
Residence Chancery
Properties renovated 2020/21 2024/25  R6 400 000 R14 908 975
6 London: Renovation works of
the Chancery, Official and staff
residences
Renovation of Chancery, Official
and staff residences
Properties renovated 2022/23 2024/25  R7 500 000 R123 423
7 Rome: Renovation project Renovation of the identified
works in the Official Residence
Properties renovated 2022/23 2024/25  R5 000 000 R705 135
8 Maseru: Renovation of the: Official
Residence
Renovation of the Official
Residence
Properties renovated 2022/23 2024/25 R5 610 000 R0.00
9 Mbabane: Refurbishment of Official
Residence
Renovation of the Official
Residence and Chancery
Properties renovated 2023/24 2024/25  R6 683 000 R143 099
10 Windhoek: Repairs and
maintenance at staff residences
Renovation of Chancery of staff
residence
Properties renovated 2022/23 2024/25 R11 000 000 R2 922 705

199ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
Infrastructure projects
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Appropriation
R’000
Actual
Expenditure
R’000
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000
Final
Appropriation
R’000
Actual
Expenditure
R’000
(Over)/Under
Expenditure
R’000
New and replacement assets – – – – – –
Existing infrastructure assets – – – – – –
 » Upgrades and additions – – – – – –
 » Rehabilitation, renovations and refurbishments – – – – – –
 » Maintenance and repairs –  29 173 – 29 173  15 914  14 299  1 615
Infrastructure transfer – – – – – –
 » Current – – – – – –
 » Capital  42 999  4 130  38 869  62 970 3 187  59 783
Total  42 999  33 303  9 696  78 884  17 486  61 398
Refurbishment and refresh of ICT Infrastructure
During the financial year 2022/23, the department managed to appoint a service provider for the global Wide Area Network (GWAN) project as part of the implementation
of the Digital Strategy 2020 – 2025. Since all ICT infrastructure has been obsolete and unsupported from 2009 and some 2015. ICT has been unable to upgrade and update
this infrastructure with the latest software patches raising cybersecurity risks for the department.
The modernized ICT infrastructure will allow the department to seamlessly interact with all offices globally and be able to run online meetings, webinars, and conferences.
In addition, the technology will allow for enhanced and secured mobility and Wi-Fi connectivity.
Furthermore, the deployment of new laptops and desktops has assisted officials to perform their duties effectively and efficiently.

200
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION

PART C:
GOVERNANCE
201ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

202
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1. INTRODUCTION
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) is committed
to good corporate governance and has various internal control mechanisms
in place to strengthen corporate governance. There are various management
structures and committees in place with terms of reference, which meet on a
regular basis. The department also has fully functioning assurance structures such
as Risk Management and Internal Audit. These structures are supported by the
Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee, both chaired by independent
(external) chairpersons. The department can report that both committees have
contributed positively in terms of the risk and audit management processes in the
department
2. RISK MANAGEMENT
The department has reviewed the developed Risk Management Policy and Strategy
during the current financial year. The policy and strategy were recommended
by the Risk Management Committee and approved by the Director–General.
The department conducts regular risk assessment to identify new and emerging
risks and they are monitored regularly and reported to the Risk Management
Committee, Director’s–General Forum and Audit Committee. The results of the risk
assessments also identified mitigations to manage those risks to keep these at an
acceptable level.
The Risk Management Committee was established and consists of an independent
external Chairperson and members of the top management structure of the
department. The contract of the independent external Chairperson was extended
in line with the term of Audit Committee. The Risk Management Committee meets
on a quarterly basis and on ad–hoc basis when the need arises. Over the period,
there has been an improvement on the operations as a result of improved risk
appetite. However, there are specific areas, which need a special risk management
approach to ensure that risks are kept at acceptable level. The department has
the Audit Committee, which meets regularly to advise the department on risk
management and monitors the effectiveness of the system of risk management.
3. FRAUD AND CORRUPTION
The department had developed an Anti–fraud and Corruption Policy and Strategy
to set its zero–tolerance level on activities relating to fraud and corruption. The
awareness activities took place throughout the department within the programmes.
The governance structures had also been strengthened to monitor and take
timeous decisions on matters relating to fraud and corruption. The Anti–fraud and
Corruption Policy goes hand in hand with the Whistle–blowing Policy, which provides
clear guidance on the reporting process of indications of fraud and corruption. It
also indicates how the reported allegations are to be handled to their conclusion.
The Whistle–blowing Policy provides the reporting lines, starting with the immediate
supervisor or confidentially through Internal Audit or Labour Relations. Officials are
PART C: GOVERNANCE

203ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GOVERNANCE
also encouraged to anonymously report any allegations of fraud or corruption to
the National Anti–fraud Hotline managed by the Public Service Commission. The
allegations received are duly investigated and if the results of investigations warrant
a disciplinary process to take place, the Labour Relations function manages the
disciplinary process accordingly.
4. MINIMISING CONFLICT OF INTEREST
The department has appointed ethics officers to facilitate the submission of the
Senior Management Service’s financial disclosures as well as those of employees
at remuneration levels 11 and 12, employees on the occupational–specific
dispensation paid on level 13 and officials at Finance and Supply Chain Management
working with procurement and payment.
The ethics officers process applications for other remunerative work for approval/
disapproval by the Director–General.
5. CODE OF CONDUCT
The department adheres to the Public Service Code of Conduct, Resolution 1 of
2003. Once an allegation that any provision of the code has been breached, the
department normally initiates a formal investigation on the alleged contravention
of the code. The alleged offender will either be subjected to formal or informal
disciplinary processes, should the allegation be proven to have occurred. As
soon as the disciplinary procedure has been concluded, the presiding officer or
management has decided and issued a penalty, the department will give effect
to the sanction imposed as a result of the said process. The effect it has on the
department is that there is total compliance to prescripts within the department
and discipline is maintained.
6. HEALTH SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
The department, in conjunction with Imbumba Aganang Facilities Management
(IAFM), continues to maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all its
employees and contractors. During the reporting period, the IAFM conducted the
following audits:
 » Health and Hygiene (including a food safety audit of the canteen and swabs
of all kitchenette and ablution facilities)
 » Indoor air quality
 » Drinking water testing
 » Inspections of all IAFM services
 » Safety, Health, Environmental and Quality (SHEQ)
 » International Organisation for Standardisation.
Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) representatives have been appointed to
conduct regular workplace inspections and report any identified environmental
hazards. Recruitment and training of additional health and safety representatives
are ongoing to increase representation of all branches at head office. To this end,
some officials were trained in first aid, basic firefighting, emergency awareness and
evacuation during the reporting period.

204
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
7. PORTFOLIO COMMITTEES
Date of the Meeting Agenda: Portfolio Committee on International Relations
4 May 2022 Briefing on the African Renaissance Fund (ARF) and the Department of International Relations and Cooperation’s (DIRCO) Annual Performance Plan and
Strategic Plan
1 June 2022 Briefing on the IBSA Fund and its contribution to the alleviation of poverty and hunger
8 June 2022 Briefing on the triple challenges facing the country through the bilateral mechanism with China and briefing on state–owned properties managed by DIRCO
15 June 2022 Briefing on the ARF and contribution to the African Union (AU) programmes
31 August 2022 Briefing on the ARF assessments
7 September 2022 Briefing on how economic diplomacy–related activities in Africa contribute to addressing domestic challenges
14 September 2022 Briefing on the ICT Strategy
28 September 2022 Briefing on the elections held in Kenya and the readiness of Lesotho to hold elections
26 October 2022 Briefing on the elections in Lesotho
3 November 2022 Briefing on the Structured Bilateral Mechanism with the United States of America
16 November 2022 Briefing on the Pan African Parliament
30 November 2022 Briefing on the outcomes of COP27
31 January 2023 –
2 February 2023
DIRCO facilitated the oversight visit to the protocol lounges at King Shaka and OR Tambo international airports and engagements with the department,
including the Training Academy
15 February 2023 Briefing on the performance of DIRCO and that of the ARF for the First and Second Quarter of the 2022/23 financial year
22 February 2023 Briefing on the performance of DIRCO and that of the ARF for the Third Quarter of the 2022/23 financial year
1 March 2023 Briefing on the outcomes of the AU Summit, held in Addis Ababa from 18 to 19 February 2023
22 March 2023 Briefing on the ARF projects from 2019 to date
8. SCOPA RESOLUTIONS
None.

205ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GOVERNANCE
9. PRIOR MODIFICATIONS TO AUDIT REPORTS
None.
10. INTERNAL CONTROL UNIT
The Internal Audit Unit provides the department with assurance and consulting
services, conducting its affairs in terms of an approved Internal Audit Charter.
During the year, Internal Audit, in consultation with all the relevant stakeholders,
developed a risk–based three–year strategic rolling plan and annual operational
plan. The plans were formally adopted and approved by the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on the implementation of the Annual Operational Plan were
presented to the Audit Committee meetings during the year. In addition, the
following measures are in place to strengthen internal control across the spectrum
of the department:
 » the Mission Performance Reporting Framework to ensure that there is
uniformity in reporting
 » the Mission Monitoring Schedule to ensure that there is standardisation of
understanding and uniform implementation of internal control
 » the Bid Specifications Committee assists the department in ensuring that
specifications on tender documents are standard and comply with National
Treasury Regulations prior to presentation to the Departmental Bid
Adjudication Committee
 » both the Departmental Bid Evaluation and Bid Adjudication committees have
been centralised to reinforce compliance with Supply Chain Management
prescripts and minimise the risk of irregular expenditure.
11. INTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Chief Directorate: Internal Audit of DIRCO obtains its mandate from the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA), 1999 (Act 1 of 1999) as amended and its Treasury
Regulations as amended.
The Chief Directorate: Internal Audit is responsible for the internal audit function
of the department. It reports administratively to the Accounting Officer and
functionally to the Audit Committee.
Activities and objectives of Internal Audit during the period included:
 » determining whether the department’s objectives were achieved
economically, efficiently and effectively by evaluating and assessing
operations, processes, procedures and activities
 » assessing, evaluating and offering recommendations for improvement of the
department’s system of internal controls and governance
 » assessing and evaluating the departmental performance information
 » assessing and evaluating:
 – the reliability and integrity of financial and operating information
and the means used to identify, measure, classify and report such
information.
 – the systems established to ensure compliance with those policies,
plans, procedures, laws and other prescripts relevant to the
department.
 – the means of safeguarding assets and, where appropriate, the
verification of the existence of such assets.
 – the economic and efficient management of the department’s financial,
human and other resources, and the effective conduct of its operations.

206
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
For the period under review, Internal Audit has performed the following audit types
at both Head Office and the missions:
 » compliance audits such as annual financial statement review, asset
management, ICT reviews, etc.
 » consultations and/or management requests.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the department to fulfil its oversight
responsibilities in relation to governance, financial and non–financial (performance
information, human resources, legal and ICT) reporting, the internal control system,
risk management system and internal and external audit functions.
Activities and objectives of the Audit Committee are to contribute to:
 » the department implementing and maintaining effective risk management,
control and governance processes
 » the department employing effectiveness, efficiency and economy in the
utilisation and application of resources
 » ensuring that management has implemented systems and mechanisms for
the effective achievement of departmental objectives as planned
 » ensuring that the department has and maintains an effective system of
internal audit that reports at least quarterly to the Audit Committee in writing
and submits a suitable progress report and summary of audit reports
 » ensuring that the department conducts an annual assessment of all risks
relevant to DIRCO and that the department appropriately responds to risks
identified
 » mechanisms and systems being implemented by management for the
prevention, detection of and responding to fraud, theft and other irregularities
as well as material errors and wasteful practices relevant to the department
 » ensuring that the independence of the internal auditors is maintained
 » ensuring that a structured reporting line for Internal Audit is provided and
facilitating the maintenance of the objectivity of the internal auditors.
The Audit Committee reviewed the activities of the internal audit function and has
concluded that:
 » the internal audit function is effective, with no unjustified restrictions or
limitations
 » the internal audit reports were reviewed at quarterly meetings, including its
annual work programme, the reports of investigations and the responses of
management to issues raised therein.
In respect of the coordination of assurance activities, the Audit Committee
reviewed the plans and work outputs of the external and internal auditors and
concluded that these were adequate to address the significant financial risks facing
the department. The Chief Audit Executive (CAE) has direct access to the Audit
Committee Chairperson and other members.
The committee is also responsible for the assessment of the performance of the
CAE and the internal audit function.

207ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GOVERNANCE
The table below discloses relevant information on the Audit Committee members:
Name Qualifications Internal or
external
If internal,
position
in the
department
Date appointed Date
resigned
No. of
meetings
attended
Ms A Mafuleka CA(SA)
(Chairperson)
B Com Accounting
B Com Accounting (Hons)
Specialist Diploma in Financial Management
External N/A 1 January 2021
(Three–year term) until
31 December 2023
N/A Six
Mr BR Wheeler
(Deputy Chairperson)
National Diploma in State Accounts and Finance
B Com Degree
Advance Diploma in Public Administration
External N/A 1 January 2023
(Three–year second term)
until 31 December 2025
N/A Seven
Dr CF von Eck Bachelor of Arts
Business Management Diploma
Master of Business Leadership
DPhil
Certified Director
External N/A 1 January 2023
(Three–year second term)
until 31 December 2025
N/A Seven
Dr P Dala PhD (Information Technology)
Masters (Information Technology) BSc Hons (Computer
Science) Bachelor of Information Technology
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Certified
Information Security Manager (CISM)
Certified Information Systems Security Professional
(CISSP)
Lead Auditor ISO 27001 (LA ISO 27001)
Certified in the Governance of Enterprise Information
Technology (CGEIT), Certified in Risk and Information
Systems Control (CRISC), Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)
and Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator (CHFI)
External N/A 1 January 2021
(Three–year term)
until 31 December 2023
N/A Seven
Ms G Simelane CA(SA) B Com Accounting
B Com Accounting (Hons) Specialist Diploma in Auditing
CA (SA)
External N/A 1 January 2021
(Three–year term) until
31 December 2023
N/A Seven

208
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
12. AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
We are pleased to present our report for the financial year ended 31 March 2023.
Audit Committee responsibility
The Audit Committee reports that it has complied with its responsibilities arising
from section 38 (1) (a) (ii) of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 and Treasury
Regulation 3.1.10. The Audit Committee also reports that it has adopted appropriate
formal terms of reference as its Audit Committee Charter, has regulated its affairs in
compliance with this charter and has discharged all its responsibilities as contained
therein.
The effectiveness of Internal Control
The system of controls is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded and that liabilities and working capital are efficiently managed. In line
with the PFMA, 1999 and the recommendations from the King IV Report on Corporate
Governance requirements, Internal Audit provides the committee with the assurance
that the internal controls are appropriate and effective. This is achieved by means
of reviews and testing of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls, as
well as the identification of corrective actions and suggested enhancement to the
internal controls, governance and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee is concerned that in some instances matters raised by the
internal auditors and external auditors in the current financial year and prior years
were not adequately addressed by management.
An Audit Action Plan was in place during the reporting period; however, the Audit
Committee was not satisfied with the progress made on its implementation. From
the various reports of the internal auditors and the Auditor–General of South Africa
(AGSA), it was reported that there were serious control deficiencies. Accordingly,
we can report that the system of internal controls for the period under review was
adequate but ineffective, and so was the Audit Action Plan.
The following were raised as areas that still require urgent attention of management:
 » Inadequate implementation of consequence management.
 » Non–compliance with the Supply Chain Management prescripts remains an
area of concern, especially at missions
 » Condition of the state–owned properties abroad, especially chanceries and
official residences
 » Revenue management
 » Asset management
 » Information Communications & Technology control environment.
In–Year Management and Monthly/Quarterly Report
The department has been reporting monthly and quarterly to the National Treasury
as is required by the PFMA, 1999.
Evaluation of financial statements
The committee has:
 » reviewed and discussed with the Auditor–General and the Accounting Officer
the audited annual financial statements to be included in the Annual Report
 » reviewed the Auditor–General’s Audit Report, the management report and
management’s responses thereto
 » reviewed significant adjustments resulting from the audit.
The committee notes the conclusions of the Auditor–General on the annual
financial statements.

209ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
GOVERNANCE
Auditor General’s Report
The Auditor–General acted as external auditors throughout the year. The
committee reviewed the AGSA’s scope and work plan to ensure that key risk areas
of the department were being addressed during the audit process.
We have reviewed the department’s implementation plan for audit issues raised in
the previous year and we were not satisfied that the matters have been adequately
resolved, especially the following:
 » compliance with laws and regulations
 » consequence management.
The Auditor–General’s report was reviewed, and the Audit Committee was pleased
that the department was able to sustain an unqualified with findings audit opinion
in the financial year 2022/23. This is a notable achievement considering the history
of qualified audit opinions the department has been used to.
The Audit Committee concurs and accepts the conclusions of the Auditor–General
on the annual financial statements and is of the opinion that the audited annual
financial statements be accepted and read together with the report of the Auditor–
General.
Ayanda Mafuleka
Chairperson of the Audit Committee
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
31 August 2023

210
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
13. B–BBEE COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
The following table has been completed in accordance with the compliance to the B-BBEE requirements of the B-BBEE Act of 2013 and as determined by the Department
of Trade, Industry and Competition.
Has the Department/Public Entity applied any relevant Code of Good Practice (B–BBEE Certificate Levels 1 – 8) with regards to the following:
Criteria
Response
Yes/No
Discussion
(include a discussion on your response and indicate what measures have been taken to
comply)
Determining qualification criteria for the issuing of licences,
concessions or other authorisations in respect of economic
activity in terms of any law?
No Not applicable to DIRCO
Developing and implementing a preferential procurement
policy?
Yes The department has identified the specific departmental goals preference points and are broken
down into the following categories: ownership by HDIs, ownership by women, ownership by
youth and ownership by people living with disabilities. All bids and quotations advertised include
the evaluation of preference points with the categories indicated to claim their preference points.
Determining qualification criteria for the sale of state–owned
enterprises?
No Not applicable to DIRCO
Developing criteria for entering into partnerships with the
private sector?
No Not applicable to DIRCO
Determining criteria for the awarding of incentives, grants
and investment schemes in support of Broad–Based Black
Economic Empowerment?
No Not applicable to DIRCO

PART D:
HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
211ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

212
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1. INTRODUCTION
The information contained in this part of the Annual Report has been prescribed
by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration for all departments in the
Public Service.
2. OVERVIEW OF HUMAN RESOURCES
INTRODUCTION
The strategic objective of Human Resources is to implement effective human
resource management to make certain that adequate and sufficient skilled
resources are in place and that performance is monitored.
OVERVIEW OF HUMAN RESOURCES
During the reporting period, the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) had a vacancy rate of 18,7%, which is above the national
average vacancy rate of 10%. The vacancy rate increased from the previous financial
year (16%), as only 32 critical posts could be advertised, to reduce the shortfall on
the Compensation of Employees’ budget. The critical advertised posts included the
posts of Deputy Director–General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda, as
well as Chief Financial Officer.
A report on the submission of performance agreements by all eligible DIRCO
Senior Management Service (SMS) members was prepared and submitted. The
department further ensured that performance was effectively monitored through
conducting performance assessments for all eligible employees, including SMS
members.
The department did not enrol any new interns during the 2022/23 financial year
owing to financial constraints. Means were made to secure sponsorship for the
implementation of future internship and learnership programmes. The Public
Service Sector Education and Training Authority (PSETA) has offered the department
a discretionary grant to implement a learnership programme for unemployed
youth in the 2023/24 financial year.
Forty–five training programmes were implemented in line with 2022/23 Workplace
Skills Plan (WSP) of the department, exceeding the annual target of 20 training
programmes that was set. The 25 additional training programmes were
implemented due to critical training requests that were received, approved and
implemented. Thirty bursary applications were received and processed according
to the policy of the department.
PART D: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

213ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
During this reporting period, 24 grievances were lodged, 17 resolved, two remained unresolved and five were prematurely lodged and referred to the business units for
intervention. The reported misconduct cases that required investigation were processed timeously. Some of the investigations and disciplinary hearings were facilitated
virtually, though it was time consuming. Most of the disciplinary hearings were convened face to face to ensure prompt facilitation, resolution and closure. In a few
disciplinary cases, the hearings had to be postponed numerous times due to the unavailability of panel members. There was an increase in the finalisation of disputes
during the period under review. There was an unusual increase on reported abscondment cases, which led to an increase in disputes for this category.
Employee Health and Wellness
Figure 2: Statistics on presenting problems
Quarter 1
Quarter 2
Quarter 3
Quarter 4
33
26
8
3
7
3
10
90
209
37
21
5
2
12
10
22
109
240
16
23
0
0
1
11
14
65
165
35
24
2
4
9
9
12
100
197
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Work-related
Family/personal
relationships
Financial
Substance
abuse
Health, including
HIV,TB
Depression,
anxiety, stress,
other mental
problems
Bereavement/
trauma
PROBLEM
CATEGORIES
(CASES) TOTAL
TOTAL
NUMBER OF
SESSIONS
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS STATISTICS

214
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Psychosocial support was rendered to 364 employees and their families. The main
presenting problem is work–related followed by family and personal problems.
Random courtesy calls were made to transferred officials in missions to assess how
they were coping during posting and to provide the necessary support. Courtesy
calls were also extended to transferred officials in Syria and Turkey, following the
devastating earthquakes.
Wellness Day events were held at Head Office (OR Tambo Building) and the OR
Tambo International Airport State Protocol Lounge. A total of 1 176 employees
were screened for non–communicable diseases (hypertension, diabetes, obesity,
cholesterol), and tuberculosis (TB). Some of these screenings were conducted at
the DIRCO on–site clinic. The department supported various sporting codes during
sports activities. Additionally, the department organised the Move for Health Day
and encouraged all employees at Head Office to participate in physical health
activities.
HIV/AIDS and TB awareness took place during the Candlelight Memorial and World
AIDS days. A total of 109 employees participated in voluntary HIV counselling and
testing. TB screening was conducted for 1 411 officials, mainly through the on–site
clinic.
Twenty educational sessions were conducted. These included mental health–
promotion topics such as bipolar mood disorder, suicide prevention, mental health
during the festive period and self–injury. Other psycho–educational sessions
focussed on financial wellness, debt–relief measures, stress management, conflict
management and pre–posting preparations. In addition, electronic articles on
various health topics were circulated. Flu vaccines were provided to 112 employees
by the on–site clinic.
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)
The department continues to maintain a safe and healthy environment for all
employees, contractors and the public. The Safety Health and Environment (SHE)
representatives conducted inspections in their respective work areas to identify
and eliminate any hazards and risks. Imbumba Aganang Facilities Management
(IAFM), conducted regular service points audits. Four injury–on–duty cases were
reported and investigated.
Six OHS Committee meetings were held. Fifty–one employees were trained in
various aspects of OHS, such as SHE representatives, first aid, basic firefighting,
and emergency evacuation.
3. HUMAN RESOURCES OVERSIGHT STATISTICS
3.1. PERSONNEL–RELATED EXPENDITURE
The following tables summarise the final audited personnel–related expenditure
by programme and by salary bands. In particular, they provide an indication of the
following:
 » amount spent on personnel
 » amount spent on salaries, overtime, homeowners’ allowances (HOAs) and
medical aid.

215ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.1.1 Personnel expenditure by programme for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Programme
Total
expenditure
(R’000)
Personnel
expenditure
(R’000)
Training
expenditure
(R’000)
Professional
and special
services
expenditure
(R’000)
Personnel
expenditure
as a % of total
expenditure
Average
personnel cost
per employee
(R’000)
Programme 1 (703) 1 664 407 486 789 3 413 132 29.2 692
Programme 2 (780 + 1 168 = 1 948) 3 374 405 2 024 576 8 396 60.0 1 039
Programme 3 (189 + 108 = 297) 558 175 367 727 0 9 65.9 1 238
Programme 4 (251) 335 812 178 237 0 2 53.1 710
Total (1 923 + 1 276 = 3 199) 5 932 799 3 057 329 3 421 539 51.5 956
NOTE: The amounts reflected under personnel expenditure indicated in programmes 2 and 3 include the personnel expenditure for Locally Recruited Personnel (LRP) (1 276) employed
at missions and exclude three secondments.
Table 3.1.2 Personnel costs by salary band for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
Personnel
expenditure
(R’000)
Personnel
expenditure
as a % of total
expenditure
No of
employees
(including LRPs)
as at 31 March
2023
Average
personnel cost
per employee
(R’000)
Total 3 057 329 51.5 3 199 956
NOTE: The PERSAL and BAS systems could not provide figures by salary bands, hence the information is provided for the entire personnel expenditure.

216
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.1.3 Salaries, overtime, HOA and medical aid by programme for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Programme
Salaries Overtime HOA Medical aid
Amount (R’000)
Salaries as a %
of personnel
costs
Amount (R’000)
Overtime as a
% of personnel
costs
Amount (R’000)
HOA as a %
of personnel
costs
Amount (R’000)
Medical aid
as a % of
personnel
costs
Programme 1 329 520 67.7 9 462 1.9 10 434 2.1 23 015 4.7
Programme 2 446 772 22.1 6 785 0.3 7 403 0.4 69 716 3.4
Programme 3 114 970 31.3 6 131 1.7 1 832 0.5 10 771 2.9
Programme 4 116 002 65.1 2 941 1.7 3 705 2.1 8 954 5.0
Total 1 007 264 32.9 25 319 0.8 23 374 0.8 112 456 3.7
Table 3.1.4 Salaries, overtime, HOA and medical aid by salary band for the
period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
PERSAL and BAS systems do not stipulate figures by salary band.
3.2. EMPLOYMENT AND VACANCIES
The tables in this section summarise the position regarding employment and
vacancies.
The following tables summarise the number of posts on the establishment, the
number of employees, the vacancy rate and whether there are any staff that are
additional to the establishment.
This information is presented in terms of three key variables:
 » programme
 » salary band
 » critical occupations (see definition in notes below).
Departments have identified critical occupations that need to be monitored. In
terms of current regulations, it is possible to create a post on the establishment
that can be occupied by more than one employee. Therefore, the vacancy rate
reflects the percentage of posts that are not filled.

217ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.2.1 Employment and vacancies by programme as on 31 March 2023
Programme
Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 March
2023
Number of posts filled on 31
March 2023 (including three
political office bearers and
employees additional)
Vacancy rate
%
Number of employees
additional to the establishment
Programme 1 890 703 21.0 20
Programme 2 883 780 11.7 0
Programme 3 245 192 21.6 1
Programme 4 350 251 28.2 0
Total 2 368 1 926 18.7 21
NOTE: The three political office bearers (POBs), three secondments and 21 employees reflected as additional to the establishment are included in the total number of posts filled
(1 926). The employees reflected as additional to the establishment include, among others, those employees on unpaid leave in terms of the MPSA Guidelines: Management of Spouses
that will accompany employees designated to serve abroad and those seconded to international organisations in terms of the National Policy on Secondment of South African Public
Service Employees.
Table 3.2.2 Employment and vacancies by salary band as on 31 March 2023
Salary band
Number of posts
on approved
establishment on
31 March 2023
Number of posts filled
on 31 March 2023
(including employees
additional)
Vacancy rate %
Number of employees
additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 3 1 66.7 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 174 116 33.3 2
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 776 669 13.8 6
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 1 119 891 20.4 4
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 291 244 16.2 6
Special advisers 2 2 0 2
POBs 3 3 0 1
Total 2 368 1 926 18.7 21
NOTE: The three POBs, three secondments and 21 employees reflected as additional to the establishment are included in the total number of posts filled (1 926). The employees
reflected as additional to the establishment include, among others, those employees on unpaid leave in terms of the MPSA Guidelines: Management of Spouses that will accompany

218
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
employees designated to serve abroad and those seconded to international organisations in terms of the National Policy on Secondment of South African Public Service Employees.
Table 3.2.3 Employment and vacancies by critical occupations as on 31 March 2023
Critical occupation
Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 March
2023
Number of posts filled on
31 March 2023 (including
employees additional)
Vacancy rate % Number of employees
additional to the establishment
Heads of Mission 112 106 5.4 0
Diplomatic Corps 532 492 7.5 1
SMS: Head Office 159 112 29.6 3
Special advisers 2 2 0 0
POBs 3 3 0 0
Total 808 715 11.5 4
NOTE: The SMS reflected as additional to the establishment include employees seconded to international organisations in terms of the National Policy on the Secondment of South
African Public Service Employees.
3.3. FILLING OF SMS POSTS
The tables in this section provide information on employment and vacancies as it relates to members of the SMS by salary level. It also provides information on advertising
and filling of SMS posts, reasons for not complying with prescribed timeframes and disciplinary steps taken.
Table 3.3.1 SMS post information as on 31 March 2023 at Head Office and missions
SMS level
Total number of funded
SMS posts on 31 March
2023
Total number of SMS
posts filled on 31
March 2023 (excluding
employees additional)
% of SMS posts filled Total number of SMS
posts vacant % of SMS posts vacant
Director–General 1 1 100 0 0
Salary Level 15 10 3 30 7 70
Salary Level 14 54 44 81.5 10 18.5
Salary Level 13 226 188 83.2 38 16.8
Special advisers 2 2 100 0 0
POB 3 3 100 0 0

219ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SMS level
Total number of funded
SMS posts on 31 March
2023
Total number of SMS
posts filled on 31
March 2023 (excluding
employees additional)
% of SMS posts filled Total number of SMS
posts vacant % of SMS posts vacant
Total 296 241 81.4 55 18.6
Table 3.3.2 SMS post information as on 30 September 2022 at Head Office and missions
SMS level
Total number of
funded SMS posts on 30
September 2022
Total number of
SMS posts filled on
30 September 2022
(excluding employees
additional)
% of SMS posts filled Total number of SMS
posts vacant % of SMS posts vacant
Director–General 1 1 100 0 0
Salary Level 15 10 4 40 6 60
Salary Level 14 54 43 79.6 11 20.4
Salary Level 13 226 183 81 43 19
Special advisers 2 2 100 0 0
POB 3 3 100 0 0
Total 296 236 79.7 60 20.3
Table 3.3.3 Advertising and filling of SMS posts at Head Office for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
SMS level
Advertising Filling of posts
Number of vacancies per level
advertised in six months of becoming
vacant
Number of vacancies per level filled in
six months of becoming vacant
Number of vacancies per level not filled
in six months but filled in 12 months
Director–General 0 0 0
Salary Level 15 1 0 1
Salary Level 14 1 0 1
Salary Level 13 0 0 0
Total 2 0 2

220
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.3.4 Reasons for not having complied with the filling of funded vacant SMS posts – Advertised within six months and filled within 12 months after
becoming vacant for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023 at Head Office
Reasons for vacancies not advertised within six months
Due to the ceiling placed on the Compensation of Employees’ (CoE) Budget, the department could not advertise posts within six months of being vacant
Reasons for vacancies not filled within 12 months
The filling of posts continued to be affected by the ceiling placed on the CoE by National Treasury. As a result, the filling of some critical vacancies was delayed. The department’s vacancy
rate is at 18.7%’, which is higher than the national average rate of 10%.
NOTE: In terms of the Public Service Regulations Chapter 1, Part VII C.1A.3, departments must indicate good cause or reason for not having complied with the filling of SMS posts
within the prescribed timeframes.
Table 3.3.5 Disciplinary steps taken for not complying with the prescribed timeframes for filling SMS posts within 12 months for the period
1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Reasons for vacancies not advertised within six months
No disciplinary steps taken as the reason for vacancies not advertised was not due to negligence, but factors cited in Table 3.3.4.
Reasons for vacancies not filled within 12 months
Same as Table 3.3.5
NOTE: In terms of the Public Service Regulations Chapter 1, Part VII C.1A.2, departments must indicate good cause or reason for not having complied with the filling of SMS posts
within the prescribed timeframes. In the event of non–compliance with this regulation, the relevant executive authority or head of department must take appropriate disciplinary steps
in terms of section 16A (1) or (2) of the Public Service Act.

221ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.4. JOB EVALUATION
Within a nationally determined framework, executing authorities may evaluate or re–evaluate any job in his or her organisation. In terms of the regulations, all vacancies on
salary levels 9 and higher must be evaluated before they are filled. The following table summarises the number of jobs that were evaluated during the year under review.
The table also provides statistics on the number of posts that were upgraded or downgraded.
Table 3.4.1 Job evaluation by salary band for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
Number of posts
on approved
establishment
on 1 April 2022
Number of jobs
evaluated
% of posts
evaluated by
salary bands
Posts upgraded Posts downgraded
Number % of posts
evaluated Number % of posts
evaluated
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 3 0 0 0 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 175 0 0 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 774 1 9 67 9 0 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels
9–12) 1 125 0 0 0 0 0 0
SMS Band A (Level 13) 226 0 0 0 0 0 0
SMS Band B (Level 14) 54 0 0 0 0 0 0
SMS Band C (Level 15) 10 0 0 0 0 0 0
SMS Band D (Level 16) 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 2 368 1 3 67 3 0 0
NOTE: The three POBs and two special advisers are excluded.

222
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The following table provides a summary of the number of employees whose positions were upgraded due to their post being upgraded. The number of employees might
differ from the number of posts upgraded since not all employees are automatically absorbed into the new posts and some of the posts upgraded could also be vacant.
Table 3.4.2 Profile of employees whose positions were upgraded due to their posts being upgraded for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Gender African Asian Coloured White Total
Female 36 0 1 3 40
Male 22 0 2 3 27
Total 58 0 3 6 67
Employees with a disability 0
The following table summarises the number of cases where remuneration bands exceeded the grade determined by job evaluation. Reasons for the deviation are provided
in each case.
Table 3.4.3 Employees with salary levels higher than those determined by job evaluation by occupation for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Total number of employees’ salary levels higher than those determined by job evaluation by occupation None
The following table summarises the beneficiaries of the above in terms of race, gender and disability.
Table 3.4.4 Profile of employees who have salary levels higher than those determined by job evaluation for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Total number of employees who have salary levels higher than those determined by job evaluation None

223ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.5. EMPLOYMENT CHANGES
This section provides information on changes in employment over the financial year. Turnover rates provide an indication of trends in the employment profile of the
department. The following tables provide a summary of turnover rates by salary band and critical occupations (see definition in notes below).
Table 3.5.1 Annual turnover rates by salary band for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
Number of employees
on 1 April 2022
(including employees
additional)
Appointments and
transfers into the
department
Terminations and
transfers out of the
department
Turnover rate %
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 1 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 124 2 6 4.8
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 684 7 18 2.6
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 929 7 51 5.5
*SMS Band A (Level 13) 169 1 10 5.9
*SMS Band B (Level 14) 70 0 1 1.4
SMS Band C (Level 15) 11 0 2 18.2
SMS Band D (Level 16) 0 1 0 0
Special advisers 2 1 0 0
POBs 3 0 0 0
Total 1 993 19 88 4.4
NOTE: *The three secondments are included

224
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.5.2 Annual turnover rates by critical occupation for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Critical occupation
Number of employees on 1
April 2022 (including employees
additional)
Appointments and transfers
into the department
Terminations and transfers out
of the department Turnover rate
*Heads of Mission 92 0 6 6.5
*Diplomatic Corps 467 0 25 5.4
SMS: Head Office 139 2 7 5.0
Special advisers 2 1 0 0
POBs 3 0 0 0
Total 703 3 38 5.4
NOTE: *The three secondments are included
The table below identifies the major reasons why staff left the department.
Table 3.5.3 Reasons why staff left the department for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Termination type Number % of total resignations
Death 5 6
Resignation 36 41
Expiry of contract 6 7
Dismissal – misconduct 3 3
Dismissal – inefficiency 0 0
Discharged due to ill–health 0 0
Retirement – Section 16(1)(a) – 65 years 15 17
Early retirement – Section 16(4) – 60 to 64 years 15 17
Early retirement – Section 16(2A) (a) – 55 to 59 years 4 4.5
Transfer to other public service departments 4 4.5
Total 88 100
Total number of employees who left as a % of total employment (*1 926 employees on 31 March 2023) 4.6
NOTE: *The three secondments are included

225ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.5.4 Promotions by critical occupation for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupation
Employees on 1 April
2022 (including Mission
employees additional)
Promotions to another
salary level
Salary level promotions
as a % of employees by
occupation
Progressions to another
notch within a salary
level
Notch progression as
a % of employees by
occupation
*Heads of Mission 92 0 0 22 23.9
*Diplomatic Corps 467 0 0 378 80.9
SMS: Head Office 139 2 1.4 117 84.2
Special advisers 2 0 0 0 0
POBs 3 0 0 0 0
Total 703 2 0.3 517 73.5
NOTE: *The three secondments are excluded.
Table 3.5.5 Promotions by salary band for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
Employees on 1 April
2022 (excluding HO
employees additional)
Promotions to another
salary level
Salary band
promotions as a % of
employees by salary
level
Progressions to
another notch within a
salary level
Notch progression as
a % of employees by
salary bands
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 1 0 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 122 0 0 106 86.9
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 675 0 0 550 81.5
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 916 7 0.8 756 82.5
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 235 3 1.3 139 59.1
Total 1 949 10 0.5 1 551 79.6
NOTE: The number of employees above exclude the three POBs, two special advisers, three secondments and 38 employees reflected as additional to the establishment.

226
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
3.6. EMPLOYMENT EQUITY
Table 3.6.1 Total number of employees (including employees with disabilities) in each of the following occupational categories as on 31 March 2023
Occupational category
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Asian White African Coloured Asian White
Senior officials and managers 226 22 24 34 212 14 16 31 579
Professionals 92 5 5 9 117 2 1 18 249
Technicians and associate professionals 149 16 9 64 214 18 20 79 569
Clerks 80 2 2 2 256 17 4 18 381
Service shop and market sales workers 47 3 0 3 38 0 0 1 92
Labourers and related workers 8 0 0 0 22 1 0 0 31
Plant and machine operators and assemblers 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 11
Total 622 50 40 112 859 52 41 147 1 923
Employees with disabilities (included in categories) 9 1 1 5 5 1 0 5 27
NOTE: The numbers of employees above exclude the three secondments.
Table 3.6.2 Total number of employees (including employees with disabilities) in each of the following occupational bands as on 31 March 2023
Occupational band
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Asian White African Coloured Asian White
Top management (Levels 15–16) 4 3 0 0 8 0 0 1 16
Senior management (Levels 13–14) 83 10 13 12 91 5 2 14 230
Professionally qualified (Levels 10–12) 289 27 22 91 281 22 30 96 858
Skilled technical (Levels 6–9) 184 8 5 9 427 24 9 36 702
Semi–skilled (Levels 3–5) 62 2 0 0 51 1 0 0 116
Unskilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Total 622 50 40 112 859 52 41 147 1 923
NOTE: The numbers of employees above exclude the three secondments.

227ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.6.3 Recruitment for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational band
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White
Top management (Levels 15–16) 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 2
Senior management (Levels 13–14) 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Professionally qualified (Levels 10–12) 3 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 7
Skilled technical (Levels 6–9) 3 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 7
Semi–skilled (Levels 3–5) 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2
Unskilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 7 2 0 0 9 0 1 0 19
Employees with disabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
NOTE: One special adviser is included.
Table 3.6.4 Promotions for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational band
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White
Top management (Levels 15–16) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Senior management (Levels 13–14) 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 3
Professionally qualified (Levels 10–12) 3 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 7
Skilled technical (Levels 6–9) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Semi–skilled (Levels 3–5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Unskilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 4 1 1 0 4 0 0 0 10
Employees with disabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

228
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.6.5 Terminations for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational band
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White
POB 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Special advisers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Top management (Levels 15–16) 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2
Senior management (Levels 13–14) 3 0 1 0 6 0 0 1 11
Professionally qualified (Levels 10–12) 15 0 0 10 16 3 2 5 51
Skilled technical (Levels 6–9) 7 1 0 0 9 1 0 0 18
Semi–skilled (Levels 3–5) 3 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 6
Unskilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 29 1 1 10 34 4 2 7 88
Employees with disabilities 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Table 3.6.6 Disciplinary action for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Disciplinary action
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Indian White African Coloured Indian White
Submitting fraudulent matric certificate 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Absent without authorisation 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Performing remunerative work without approval of the DG 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Bring the country and the department into disrepute 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Absent without authorisation 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Insubordination, late coming, disrespect towards the
supervisor 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Negligence 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1
Total 2 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 7

229ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.6.7 Skills development for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational category
Male Female
Total
African Coloured Asian White African Coloured Asian White
Senior officials and managers 58 7 5 12 114 6 6 17 225
Professionals 37 2 1 15 35 7 8 9 114
Technicians and associate professionals 16 1 0 0 32 2 0 11 62
Clerks 8 0 0 0 15 2 0 3 28
Service shop and market sales workers 17 0 0 0 20 1 0 0 38
Plant and machine operators and assemblers 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2
Labourers and related workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 138 10 6 27 216 18 14 40 469
Employees with disabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1

230
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
3.7 . SIGNING OF PERFORMANCE AGREEMENTS BY SMS MEMBERS
All members of the SMS must conclude and sign performance agreements within specific timeframes. Information regarding the signing of performance agreements by
SMS members, the reasons for not complying within the prescribed timeframes and disciplinary steps taken are presented here.
Table 3.7 .1 Signing of performance agreements by SMS members as on 31 May 2022
SMS level Total number of funded
SMS posts
Total number of SMS members
(excluding employees
additional)
Total number of signed
performance agreements
Signed performance
agreements as % of total
number of SMS members
Director–General 1 1 1 0.4
Salary Levels 15/16 10 11 10 4.3
Salary Level 14 54 69 59 25.3
Salary Level 13 226 152 122 52.4
Total 291 233 192 82.4
NOTE: The three POBs and one special adviser and three secondments are excluded. The higher number of SMS members compared to the total number funded SMS
posts is as a result of the political appointees who are contract heads of mission.
Table 3.7 .2 Reasons for not having concluded performance agreements for all SMS members as on 31 May 2022
Reasons
Some of the Senior Management Service (SMS) members who did not submit Performance Agreements were not eligible to submit by 31 May 2022 because they were either recently
transferred to and/or from the Missions/Head Office or attending training in preparation for transfer to the Missions abroad. These SMS members had three (3) months from the date
of assumption of duty in the new positions to enter into Performance Agreements in line with the provisions of Chapter 4 of the SMS Handbook dealing with Performance Management
and Development System for Senior Management Service members in the Public Service. One dispute was lodged by an SMS member.
Table 3.7 .3 Disciplinary steps taken against SMS members for not having concluded performance agreements as on 31 May 2022
Reasons
The Director–General intervened to have the dispute resolved.

231ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.8. PERFORMANCE REWARDS
To encourage good performance, the department has granted the following performance rewards during the year under review. The information is presented in terms of
race, gender, disability, salary bands and critical occupations (see definition in notes below).
Table 3.8.1 Performance rewards by race, gender and disability for the period 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022
Race and gender
Beneficiary profile Cost
Number of beneficiaries
Number of employees on
1 April 2021
(excluding HO employees
additional)
% of total within group Cost in rand Average cost per
employee in rand
African
 Male 0 660 0 0 0
 Female 0 888 0 0 0
Asian
 Male 0 40 0 0 0
 Female 0 39 0 0 0
Coloured
 Male 0 50 0 0 0
 Female 0 53 0 0 0
White
 Male 0 123 0 0 0
 Female 0 161 0 0 0
Total 0 2 014 0 0 0
NOTE: The numbers above exclude the three POBs, two special advisers, three secondments and 21 interns.

232
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.8.2 Performance rewards by salary band for personnel below SMS for the period 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022
Salary band
Beneficiary profile Cost
Total cost as a % of
the Total personnel
expenditure
Number of
beneficiaries
Number of
employees on
1 April 2021
(excluding HO
employees
additional)
% of total within
salary bands Total cost in rand Average cost per
employee in rand
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 0 1 0 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 0 129 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 0 687 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels
9–12) 0 945 0 0 0 0
Total 0 1 762 0 0 0 0
Table 3.8.3 Performance rewards by critical occupation for the period 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022
Critical occupation
Beneficiary profile Cost
Number of beneficiaries
Number of employees on
1 April 2021 (excluding
employees additional)
% of total within
occupation Total cost in rand Average cost per
employee
Heads of Mission 0 97 0 0 0
Diplomatic Corps 0 480 0 0 0
SMS: Head Office 0 138 0 0 0
Total 0 715 0 0 0
NOTE: The three POBs, two special advisers and three secondments are excluded.

233ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Table 3.8.4 Performance–related rewards (cash bonus), by salary band for SMS for the period 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022
Salary band
Beneficiary profile Cost
Total cost as a % of
the Total personnel
expenditure
Number of
beneficiaries
Number of employees
on 1 April 2021
(excluding employees
additional)
% of total within
salary bands Total cost Average cost per
employee
Band A (Level 13) 0 166 0 0 0 0
Band B (Level 14) 0 70 0 0 0 0
Band C (Level 15) 0 14 0 0 0 0
Band D (Level 16) 0 2 0 0 0 0
Total 0 252 0 0 0 0
NOTE: The three POBs, two special advisers and three secondments are excluded.
3.9. FOREIGN WORKERS
The tables below summarise the employment of foreign nationals in the department in terms of salary band and major occupation.
Table 3.9.1 Foreign workers by salary band for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
1 April 2022 31 March 2023 Change
Number % of total Number % of total Number % Change
Lower skilled (LRP levels 1–2) 313 23.3 324 25.39 –11 –3.5
Skilled (LRP levels 3–5) 801 59.5 743 58.23 58 7.2
Highly skilled supervision (LRP levels 6–8) 231 17.2 209 16.38 22 9.5
Total 1 345 100 1 276 100 69 5.1
NOTE: It should be noted that Locally Recruited Personnel (LRP) employed by South African missions abroad do not reflect the salary levels 1–13 as per the Public Service Act. LRP
salary levels are from LRP 1 (lower skilled) to LRP 8 (highly skilled).

234
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.9.2 Foreign workers by major occupation for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Major occupation
1 April 2022 31 March 2023 Change
Number % of total Number % of total Number % Change
LRP1 – Cleaner, domestic worker and labourer 187 13.90 184 14.42 3 1.6
LRP 2 – Gardener, cleaning supervisor, watchman/woman, messenger and senior domestic worker 126 9.37 140 10.97 –14 –11.1
LRP 3 – Chauffeur, maintenance officer, head messenger, messenger/driver, senior store man/
woman, gate/night watchman/woman and mailing clerk
238 17.70 232 18.18 6 2.5
LRP 4 – Guard/receptionist, receptionist/telephonist/typist clerk (combination post), chauffeur/guard,
registry clerk, assistant accounts/administrative clerk, assistant consular/immigration clerk, assistant
library clerk, assistant personnel clerk and senior maintenance officer
118 8.77 114 8.93 4 3.4
LRP 5 – Secretary, special receptionist, social secretary, library clerk, immigration clerk, consular clerk,
administrative clerk, accounts clerk, information clerk, personnel clerk and chief maintenance officer
445 33.09 397 31.11 48 10.8
LRP 6 – Senior secretary, immigration/consular assistant, information/personnel assistant,
accountant, administrative officer, accountant/administrative officer (combination post), librarian,
translator, journalist, trade and information assistant and chief maintenance officer
188 13.97 191 14.97 –3 –1.6
LRP 7 – Information officer, senior administrative officer, senior accountant, journalist/translator and
marketing officer (the dtic)
39 2.90 17 1.33 22 56.4
LRP 8 – Senior marketing officer (the dtic) 4 0.30 1 0.09 3 75
Total 1 345 100 1 276 100 69 5.1
NOTE: It should be noted that LRP employed by South African missions abroad do not reflect the salary levels 1–13 as per the Public Service Act. LRP salary levels are from LRP 1
(lower skilled) to LRP 8 (highly skilled).

235ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.10. LEAVE UTILISATION
The Public Service Commission identified the need for careful monitoring of sick leave within the Public Service. The following tables provide an indication of the use of sick
leave and disability leave. In both cases, the estimated cost of the leave is also provided.
Table 3.10.1 Sick leave for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022
Salary band Total days
% days with
medical
certification
Number of
employees using
sick leave
% of total
employees using
sick leave
Average days
per employee
Estimated cost
(R’000)
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 749 73.03 94 6.80 8 772
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 5 018 77.53 561 40.40 9 8 099
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 5 635 80.75 611 43.90 9 17 558
Top and senior management (Levels 13–16) 1 147 88.67 124 8.90 9 5 384
Total 12 549 79.70 1 390 100 9 31 813
Table 3.10.2 Disability leave (temporary and permanent) for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022
Salary band Total days
% days with
medical
certification
Number of
employees using
disability leave
% of total
employees using
disability leave
Average days
per employee
Estimated cost
(R’000)
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 550 100 11 36.70 50 891
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 570 100 16 53.30 36 1 705
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 92 100 3 10.00 31 420
Total 1 212 100 30 100 40 3 016

236
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The table below summarises the utilisation of annual leave. The wage agreement concluded with trade unions in the Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council (PSCBC)
in 2000 requires management of annual leave to prevent high levels of accrued leave being paid at the time of termination of service.
Table 3.10.3 Annual leave for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022
Salary band Total days taken Number of employees
using annual leave Average per employee
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 3 250.00 126 26
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 18 520.64 687 27
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 26 282.75 927 28
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 5 454.00 253 22
Interns 7.00 1 7
Total 53 514. 39 1 994 27
Table 3.10.4 Capped leave for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022
Salary band Total days of capped
leave taken
Number of employees
using capped leave
Average number
of days taken per
employee
Average capped leave
per employee as on
31 December 2022
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 9 3 3 52
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 26 9 3 28
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 776 55 14 31
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 118 11 11 36
Total 929 78 12 32

237ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
The following table summarises payments made to employees as a result of leave that was not taken.
Table 3.10.5 Leave pay–out for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Reason Total amount
(R’000) Number of employees Average per
employee (R’000)
Leave pay–out for 2021/22 due to non–utilisation of leave for the previous cycle 255 3 85
Capped leave pay–out on termination of service for 2022/23 2 724 32 85
Current leave pay–out on termination of service for 2022/23 2 793 60 47
Total 5 772 *67 employees received leave pay–outs
NOTE: Leave pay–outs were made to 67 employees. Some officials received payments for both capped and current leave upon their exits.
3.11. HIV /AIDS AND HEALTH PROMOTION PROGRAMMES
Table 3.11.1 Steps taken to reduce the risk of occupational exposure
Units/categories of employees identified to be at high risk of contracting HIV/AIDS–related diseases (if any) Key steps taken to reduce the risk
There are no specific categories/units of employees at high risk of contracting HIV and AIDS–related diseases Not applicable
Vulnerable officials transferred/posted to countries with higher HIV prevalence may be at a higher risk of contracting HIV None

238
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.11.2 Details of Health Promotion and HIV /AIDS programmes (tick the applicable boxes and provide the required information)
 Question Yes No Details, if yes
1. Has the department designated a member of the SMS to implement
the provisions contained in Part VI E of Chapter 1 of the Public Service
Regulations, 2001? If so, provide her/his name and position.
√
Ms Given R Mashigo
Director: Employee Health and Wellness (EHW)
2.  Does the department have a dedicated unit, or has it designated
specific staff members to promote the health and well–being of your
employees? If so, indicate the number of employees who are involved in
this task and the annual budget that is available for this purpose.
√
The directorate has five employees:
1 Director
2 Clinical Psychologists (Deputy Directors)
1 Industrial Psychologist (Assistant Director)
1 Administration Clerk
Estimated Budget: R5 626 749
Compensation of Employees: R4 807 149
Goods and Services: R819 600
3.  Has the department introduced an Employee Assistance or Health
Promotion Programme for your employees? If so, indicate the key
elements/services of this programme. √
 » Health and Productivity
 » Wellness Management
 » HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management
 » Safety, Health, Environmental, Risk and Environmental (SHERQ) management

239ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
 Question Yes No Details, if yes
4. Has the department established (a) committee(s) as contemplated in
Part VI E.5 (e) of Chapter 1 of the Public Service Regulations, 2001? If so,
please provide the names of the members of the committee and the
stakeholder(s) that they represent.
√
The Occupational Health and Safety Committee (OHS):
Ms G Mashigo (Convener)
Mr J Munro (Facilities Management)
Mr E Munengwane (Security Management)
Mr D Du Buisson (Labour)
Ms G Sibanyoni (Labour)
Ms M Groener (PPP)
Mr M Tlhapane
Ms E Mankhoe
Mr T Nukeri
Mr J Anand
Ms G Ngwenya
Ms AN Mlombile
Ms V Kagisho
Mr J Mamabolo
Ms LG Masipa
Ms A Mathebula
Mr VL Ncongwane
Ms MA Mogadingwane
Ms P Motloba
Mr R Gomes
Ms M Maumela
NB. All others represent their business units
5. Has the department reviewed its employment policies and practices to
ensure that these do not unfairly discriminate against employees based
on their HIV status? If so, list the employment policies/practices so
reviewed.
√
Currently under review and following the internal consultation process:
 » Health and Productivity Policy
 » Wellness Management Policy
 » HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management Policy

240
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
 Question Yes No Details, if yes
6.  Has the department introduced measures to protect HIV–positive
employees or those perceived to be HIV–positive from discrimination? If
so, list the key elements of these measures. √
 » Constitution of South Africa
 » Embedded in the HIV/AIDS, STI and TB Management Policy
 » Counselling and educating employees about their rights, confidentiality and
disclosure
 » Education and awareness–raising during the Candlelight Memorial and World
AIDS Day events
7.  Does the department encourage its employees to undergo voluntary
counselling and testing? If so, list the results that you have you
achieved. √
The department organised on–site HIV testing.
109 employees were tested. Two employees tested positive.
8.  Has the department developed measures/indicators to monitor and
evaluate the impact of its health–promotion programme? If so, list these
measures/indicators.
√
Measures/indications to monitor and evaluate impact of health promotional
programmes are as follows:
 » Branch Annual Performance Plan
 » Statistics on psychosocial support
 » Trends analysis
 » Statistics from the on–site clinic
 » Number of employees who present for voluntary counselling and testing
 » Number of employees participating during the annual Wellness days
 » Feedback from colleagues, particularly from missions abroad.
3.12. LABOUR RELATIONS
Table 3.12.1 Collective agreements for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Total number of collective agreements None

241ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
The following table summarises the outcome of disciplinary hearings conducted within the department for the year under review.
Table 3.12.2 Misconduct and disciplinary hearings finalised for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Outcomes of disciplinary hearings Number % of total
Correctional counselling 0 0
Verbal warning 0 0
Written warning 2 29
Final written warning 2 29
Suspended without pay 1 14
Fine 0 0
Demotion 1 14
Dismissal 1 14
Not guilty 0 0
Case withdrawn 0 0
Total 7 100%
Total number of disciplinary hearings finalised 7
Table 3.12.3 Types of misconduct addressed at disciplinary hearings for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Type of misconduct Number % of total
Submitting fraudulent matric certificate 1 14.3
Absent without authorisation 2 28.5
Performing remunerative work without approval of the DG 1 14.3
Bring the country and the department into disrepute 1 14.3
Insubordination, late coming, disrespect towards the supervisor 1 14.3
Negligence 1 14.3
Total 7 100%

242
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.12.4 Grievances lodged for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Grievances Number % of total
Number of grievances resolved 17 71
Number of grievances not resolved 2 8
Number of grievances prematurely referred 5 21
Total number of grievances lodged 24 100
Table 3.12.5 Disputes lodged with councils for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Disputes Number % of total
Number of disputes upheld 1 25
Number of disputes dismissed 1 25
Number of disputes pending 2 50
Total number of disputes lodged 4 100
Table 3.12.6 Strike actions for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Total number of persons working days lost 9
Total costs of working days lost 13 909.70
Amount recovered as a result of no work no pay 13 909.70
Table 3.12.7 Precautionary suspensions for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Number of people suspended 2
Number of people whose suspension exceeded 30 days 2
Average number of days suspended 240
Cost of suspension 387 124.08
The average number of days indicated is due to the investigation process and preparation for the disciplinary hearings of suspended officials, which means that the officials are not
yet charged but still on suspension. Due to the complex nature of the cases, additional time beyond the 30 days are needed and affects the suspension period.

243ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.13. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
This section highlights the efforts of the department regarding skills development.
Table 3.13.1 Training needs identified for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational category Gender
Number of
employees as
at 1 April 2022
(excluding
HO additional
employees)
Training needs identified at start of the reporting period
Learnerships
Skills
programmes
& other short
courses
Other forms of
training Total
Senior officials and managers
Female 268 0 373 0 373
Male 310 0 186 0 186
Professionals
Female 137 0 312 0 312
Male 110 0 377 0 377
Technicians and associate professionals
Female 344 0 316 0 316
Male 246 0 77 0 77
Clerks
Female 295 0 51 0 51
Male 86 0 72 0 72
Service shop and market sales workers
Female 42 0 10 0 10
Male 57 0 9 0 9
Plant and machine operators and assemblers
Female 0 0 0 0 0
Male 22 0 8 0 8
Labourers and related workers
Female 22 0 0 0 0
Male 10 0 0 0 0
Subtotal
Female 1 108 0 1 062 0 1 062
Male 841 0 729 0 729
Total 1 949 0 1 791 0 1 791
NOTE: The numbers of employees above exclude the three POBs, two special advisers, three secondments and 36 additional Head Office employees.

244
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.13.2 Training provided for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Occupational category Gender
Number of
employees as
at 1 April 2022
(excluding
HO additional
employees)
Training provided within the reporting period
Learnerships
Skills
programmes
& other short
courses
Other forms of
training Total
Senior officials and managers
Female 268 0 143 0 143
Male 310 0 82 0 82
Professionals
Female 137 0 59 0 59
Male 110 0 55 0 55
Technicians and associate professionals
Female 344 0 45 0 45
Male 246 0 17 0 17
Clerks
Female 295 0 20 0 20
Male 86 0 8 0 8
Service and sales workers
Female 42 0 21 0 21
Male 57 0 17 0 17
Plant and machine operators and assemblers
Female 0 0 0 0 0
Male 22 0 2 0 2
Labourers and related workers
Female 22 0 0 0 0
Male 10 0 0 0 0
Subtotal
Female 1 108 0 288 0 288
Male 841 0 181 0 181
Total 1 949 0 469 0 469
NOTE: The numbers of employees above exclude the three POBs, two special advisers, three secondments and 36 additional Head Office employees.

245ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
3.14. INJURY ON DUTY
The following tables provide basic information on injury on duty.
Table 3.14.1 Injury on duty for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Nature of injury on duty Number % of total
Required basic medical attention only 0 0
Temporary Total disablement 0 0
Permanent disablement 0 0
Fatal 0 0
Total 0 0
3.15. UTILISATION OF CONSULTANTS
The following tables relates information on the utilisation of consultants in the department. In terms of the Public Service Regulations, “consultant’ means a natural or
juristic person or a partnership who or which provides in terms of a specific contract on an ad hoc basis any of the following professional services to a department against
remuneration received from any source:
 » the rendering of expert advice
 » the drafting of proposals for the execution of specific tasks
 » the execution of a specific task, which is of a technical or intellectual nature, but excludes an employee of a department.
Table 3.15.1 Report on consultant appointments using appropriated funds for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Consultant appointments using appropriated funds None
Total number of projects Total individual consultants Total duration (workdays) Total contract value in Rand
0 0 0 0

246
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Table 3.15.2 Analysis of consultant appointments using appropriated funds, in terms of historically disadvantaged individuals (HDIs) for the period
1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Consultant appointments using appropriated funds, in terms of HDIs None
Table 3.15.3 Report on consultant appointments using donor funds for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Consultant appointments using donor funds None
Table 3.15.4 Analysis of consultant appointments using donor funds, in terms HDIs for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Consultant appointments using donor funds, in terms of HDIs None
3.16. SEVERANCE PACKAGES
Table 3.16.1 Granting of employee–initiated severance packages for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023
Salary band
Number of
applications
received
Number of
applications
referred to the
MPSA
Number of
applications
supported by MPSA
Number of
packages approved
by department
Lower skilled (Levels 1–2) 0 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3–5) 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6–8) 0 0 0 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9–12) 0 0 0 0
Senior management (Levels 13–16) 0 0 0 0
Total 0 0 0 0

PART E:
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
247ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

248
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1. IRREGULAR, FRUITLESS AND WASTEFUL,
UNAUTHORISED EXPENDITURE AND MATERIAL
LOSSES
1.1. Irregular expenditure
a. Reconciliation of irregular expenditure
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Opening balance 2 697 692 1 860 937
Add: Irregular expenditure confirmed 1 439 514 311 496
Less: Irregular expenditure condoned 139 193
Less: Irregular expenditure not condoned and removed 58 744
Less: Irregular expenditure recoverable
Less: Irregular expenditure not recovered and written off
Add: Irregular expenditure that relates to 2021/22 664 722
Closing balance 4 078 732 2 697 962
In terms of the new National Treasury Instruction Note 4 Annexure A (PFMA Compliance
and Reporting Framework), the previous financial year (comparative amounts) must be
recognised in the period in which they occurred as follows:
(a) irregular expenditure incurred and confirmed in the previous financial year; (b)
irregular expenditure that was under assessment in the previous financial year and
confirmed in the current financial year; and (c) irregular expenditure that was not
discovered in the previous financial year and identified and confirmed in the current
financial year. (d) irregular expenditure payments relating to multi-year contracts that
was not condoned or removed.
Reconciling notes
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure that was under assessment in
2021/22
311 496
Irregular expenditure that relates to 2021/2022 and
identified in 2022/23
664 722
Irregular expenditure for the current year 1 439 514
Total 1 439 514 976 218
PART E: PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT

249ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
b. Details of current and previous year irregular expenditure (under assessment,
determination and investigation)
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure under assessment
Irregular expenditure under determination 2 103 739
Irregular expenditure under investigation 463 290
Total 2 104 201 290
Irregular expenditure reported in 2021/22 and 2022/23 that is still under determination
and investigation
c. Details of current and previous year irregular expenditure condoned
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure condoned 0 0
Total 0 0
d. Details of current and previous year irregular expenditure removed – (not
condoned)
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure not condoned and removed 58 744 0
Total 58 744 0
Investigation conducted by forensic auditors concluded that some of the irregular
expenditures (multi-year contracts) reported did not meet the requirements of being
classified as irregular expenditures. Approval was obtained to remove irregular
expenditures amounting to R58 744.
e. Details of current and previous year irregular expenditure recovered
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure recovered 0 0
Total 0 0
f. Details of current and previous year irregular expenditure written off
(irrecoverable)
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Irregular expenditure written off 0 0
Total 0 0
Additional disclosure relating to inter–institutional arrangements
g. Details of non–compliance cases where an institution is involved in an inter–
institutional arrangement (where such institution is not responsible for the
non–compliance)
Description R’000
Irregular expenditure incurred for the DTIC in Geneva 112 963.38
Irregular expenditure incurred for LABOUR in Geneva 13 664.92
Irregular expenditure incurred for NATIONAL HEALTH in Geneva 28 240.88
Irregular expenditure incurred for TELECOMMUNICATIONS in Geneva 28 240.88
Irregular expenditure incurred for THE PRESIDENCY in Malabo 101 263.18
Irregular expenditure incurred for DHA in Malabo 15 208.23
Irregular expenditure incurred for SAPS in Lagos 167 581.79
Irregular expenditure incurred for SANDF in Havana, Islamabad,
Kampala and Kuala Lumpur
997 231.75
Irregular expenditure incurred for SSA in Berlin, Kinshasa, Maseru and
Washington
750 537.27
Total 2 214 932.28
Irregular expenditures incurred on behalf of Partner Departments by DIRCO’s Foreign
Missions.

250
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
h. Details of non–compliance cases where an institution is involved in an inter–
institutional arrangement (where such institution is responsible for the non–
compliance)
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Expenditure incurred by DIRCO - Protocol Lounges and
Metro Park Building
28 704
Total 28 704
DPWI had not signed lease agreements for State Protocol Lounges and Metro Park
Building, procurement reside with DPWI
i. Details of current and previous year disciplinary or criminal steps taken as a
result of irregular expenditure
Disciplinary steps taken
None
In respect of the financial year 2022/2023, an assessment of areas of irregularities
is currently being conducted in order to identify officials who are responsible..
1.2. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure
a. Reconciliation of fruitless and wasteful expenditure
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Opening balance 27 341 26 568
Add: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure confirmed 7 427 4 096
Less: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure written off 3 276
Less: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure recoverable  33
Less: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure removed 224
Add: Fruitless and wasteful expenditure that relates to
2021/22 and identified in 2022/23
210
Closing balance 34 768 27 341
Investigation into Fruitless expenditure for 2021/22 were concluded and an amount of
R33 000 was recoverable and R3 276 million was written off as it was irrecoverable. An
amount of R224 000 was removed as it did not meet the criteria of being classified as
Fruitless expenditure.
Fruitless and Wasteful expenditures identified in 2022/23 belonging to the prior year
2021/22 amounting to R210 000 was added to the prior years Fruitless and Wasteful
expenditure.
Reconciling notes
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure that was under
assessment in 2021/22
4 096
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure that relates to 2021/22
and identified in 2022/23
210
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure for the current year
Total 0 4 306

251ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
b. Details of current and previous year fruitless and wasteful expenditure (under
assessment, determination and investigation)
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure under assessment
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure under determination 7 427
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure under investigation
Total 7 427 0
Fruitless and Wasteful expenditures relating mostly to unoccupied properties abroad
that is still under investigation.
c. Details of current and previous year fruitless and wasteful expenditure
recovered
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure recovered 33
Total 0 33
Investigation into Fruitless expenditure for 2021/22 were concluded and an amount of
R33 000 was recoverable.
d. Details of current and previous year fruitless and wasteful expenditure
removed
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure written off 224
Total 0 224
e. Details of current and previous year fruitless and wasteful expenditure not
recovered and written off
Description
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure written off 3 276
Total 0 3 276
Investigation into Fruitless expenditure for 2021/22 were concluded and an amount of
R3 276 million was written off as it was irrecoverable.
Additional disclosure relating to inter–institutional arrangements
f. Details of non–compliance cases where an institution is involved in an inter–
institutional arrangement (where such institution is not responsible for the
non–compliance)
Description R’000
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure incurred for Dept of Planning in Cairo 657 921.17
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure incurred for the DTIC in Kampala 32 946.20
Total 690 867.37
Fruitless and Wasteful expenditures incurred on behalf of Partner Departments by
DIRCO’s Foreign Missions.
g. Details of current and previous year disciplinary or criminal steps taken as a
result of fruitless and wasteful expenditure
Disciplinary steps taken
Consequence letters have been issued to officials who have been found to be liable
upon investigation into Fruitless and Wasteful expenditure for 2021/22.

252
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
1.3. Unauthorised expenditure
a. Reconciliation of unauthorised expenditure
Description 2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Opening balance 818 169 818 169
Add: unauthorised expenditure confirmed – –
Less: unauthorised expenditure approved with funding – –
Less: unauthorised expenditure approved without funding – –
Less: unauthorised expenditure recoverable – –
Less: unauthorised not recovered and written off – –
Closing balance 818 169 818 169
Unauthorised expenditure of R 818.169 million went through the process of assessment
and determination and R 518.750 million was investigated and investigation report was
submitted to National Treasury as part of condonement request. Remaining balance of
R 299.419 million has also been submitted to National Treasury for condonement and
in terms of National Treasury Instruction No. 4 of 2022/2023: PFMA Compliance and
Reporting Framework dated 23 December 2023 unauthorised expenditure should only
be under investigation if there is suspicion of fraudulent, criminal or corrupt activities,
hence R 299.419 million will not be investigated as there was no suspicion of fraudulent,
criminal or corrupt activities.
Reconciling notes
Description 2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Unauthorised expenditure that was under assessment in
2022/23 – –
Unauthorised expenditure that relates to 2021/22 and
identified in 2022/23 – –
Unauthorised expenditure for the current year – –
Total – –
b. Details of current and previous year unauthorised expenditure (under
assessment, determination and investigation)
Description 2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Unauthorised expenditure under assessment – –
Unauthorised expenditure under determination – –
Unauthorised expenditure under investigation – –
Total – –
1.4. Additional disclosure relating to material losses in terms of
the PFMA Section 40(3)(b)(i) &(iii))
a. Details of current and previous year material losses through criminal conduct
Material losses through criminal conduct 2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Theft - -
Other material losses - -
Less: Recovered - -
Less: Not recovered and written off - -
Total - -

253ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
b. Details of other material losses
Nature of other material losses
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000

Total
c. Other material losses recovered
Nature of losses
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000

Total
d. Other material losses written off
Nature of losses
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000

Total
2. LATE AND/OR NON–PA YMENT OF SUPPLIERS
Description
Number of
invoices
Consolidated
Value
R’000
Valid invoices received 4628 2 262 965
Invoices paid within 30 days or agreed period 4388 2 134 359
Invoices paid after 30 days or agreed period 240 128 606
Invoices older than 30 days or agreed period (unpaid
and without dispute)
– –
Invoices older than 30 days or agreed period (unpaid
and in dispute)
– –
The late payment of invoices was due to late verification of invoices by the end–user and
payment systems offline.

254
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
3. SUPPL Y CHAIN MANAGEMENT
3.1. Procurement by other means
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Compulsory induction programme for
M Monaisa National School of Government Sole provider Once off 4 190,00
Morning Live broadcast during the Heads of
Mission conference SABC Sole provider Once off 431 250,00
Annual renewal of Marval software licences
1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023 Revitalize Consulting T/A Marval SA Sole provider contract DGO/10/03 8 156 215,95
Renewal of Private Bag X152 for 2022 SA Post Office Sole provider Once off 4 410,00
Catering Lunomusa Catering RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 4 080,00
Catering Lunomusa Catering RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 499 814,00
DSTV subscription Multichoice Sole provider Once off 20 220,96
Catering Monate Trading RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 2 300,00
Wooden packaging of Ndebele-beaded
framework Phinot Nostalgic Projects RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 12 999,00
Framed Ndebele beadwork Madiba Promotions RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 14 835,00
Trados training on single file translation
workflow of SDL Trados Studio 2021 NH Language Solutions Sole provider Once off 7 450,00
Subscription to Sabinet web–based
resource-sharing for South African libraries Sabinet Sole provider RFQ 2022/05/046 55 190,49
IT web security summit IT Web Sole provider Once off 26 547,75
CIP programme for level 13 – 14 National School of Government Sole provider Once off 3 130,00
CIP programme for level 6 – 12 National School of Government Sole provider Once off 4 200,00
Catering for Joint Emergency Evacuation
Committee (JEEC) meeting Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 2 871,00

255ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Charter flight for minister Cobra Aviation
DIRCO sourced suppliers from rt61 contract
but only two responded. The two suppliers
did not have the aircraft on contract. Both
suppliers requoted on aircraft not on contract.
The request was approved as urgent deviation.
RT–61 Transversal
Contract 2 475 500,00
Online national legislation service, net law Sabinet Sole provider Once off 10 916,55
Advanced data analytics tools and
optimisation Leadership Academy Sole provider Once off 8 307,60
Emerging technologies training Leadership Academy Sole provider Once off 16 277,10
Computer software licences Gen2 Enterprise Software SA Sole provider Once off 41 377,00
Audio streaming for 36 months for Ubuntu
Radio Eclipse Streaming Solutions Less than three quotations obtained Once off 96 747,41
Interpretation service for the Fourth
Ordinary Session of the Pan African
Parliament
Congress Rental Sole provider Once off 262 500,63
Extension: for licence fees for Nettrace
asset management system for three–year
period.
Nettrace (PTY) Ltd Sole provider CFO 822/19
DG6128/06 7 972 099,96
Temporary residence permits Government Printing Works Sole provider Once off 10 000,00
Equipment hire for accreditation venue for
SADC Troika Expo Guys (PTY) Ltd Preferred supplier as per SSA requirements Once off 109 342,29
Groceries Bogosi General Traders Less than three quotations obtained Once off 38 685,60
Payment of clearing agent Agrinent Holdings (PTY) Ltd
Payment made on urgent basis to the clearing
agent for the donations made by Mozambican
Government
Once off 6 000,00
Interpreters and translators Ukwazi Conference Interpreters and
Translators
Requests for quotations were sent to suppliers
but only two quotations were obtained. The
advert was sent on urgent basis
Once off 10 000,00
Waitering services Capital Hotel School RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 14 700,00
Catering Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 1 100,00

256
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Upscaling cloud utilisation Microsoft Ireland Software licence upscaling of cloud utilisation
as per DPSA directive ADG/5/1/1/1 3 329 976,77
Software licence contract variation Microsoft Ireland True–up/overage software licence as per
National Treasury Circular 11 of 2016/17 DG/5/1/1/1 2 913 061,23
Payment to DHL for the dispatching of
diplomatic bags to and from missions DHL Less than three quotations obtained RFQ2022/05/033 382 814,87
Annual membership fees for internal audit
officials
The Institute of Internal Auditors South
Africa Sole provider Once off 59 312,40
Catering Café Kotula Less than three quotations obtained Once off 15 695,00
Sound, stage and microphone SS AV and Productions The request processed on urgent basis Once off 10 580,00
Décor for RSA–ZIM MTR Café Kotula Only one quote obtained, advertised on short–
term basis. Once off 9 950,00
SA law reports annotations 2022 part 1 to 6 The Distribution Centre T/A TDC Legal
Libraries Sole provider Once off 13 225,00
BEE–compliant certificate BEE Online Advisory Less than three quotations obtained RFQ NO:2022/7/08 181 125,00
Publication of Government Gazette, Foreign
Service Act Government Printing Works Sole supplier Once off 66 579,04
Interpretation and translation services for
Pan African Parliament Congress Rental Less than three quotations obtained Once off 207 000,00
EMDP training for 20 officials The National School of Government Sole provider RFQ 2022/09/005 218 400,00
Diplomatic identity cards Government Printing Works Sole provider Once off 6 845,25
Maintenance contract for 3m model 3502
library book detection system CSX Sole provider RFQ 2022/07/046 34 866,88
Long service certificates Government Printing Works Sole provider Once off 29 870,10
Officials from EHW to attend 26th
Psychological Society of South Africa
Congress
Psychological Society of South Africa Sole provider RFQ NO
2022/08/022 17 200,00
ICT to attend Govtech 2022 Conference Sita Sole provider Once off 105 000,00

257ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Catering for Minister’s breakfast with
female heads of missions accredited to
South Africa
Café Kotula Less than three quotations obtained Once off 38 295,00
Laminators and colour ribbons to print
data cards Smart 5 Card Solutions Less than three quotations obtained RFQ NO:
2022/09/022 55 545,00
Information Security Conference
registration Knowledge Integration Web Sole provider Once off 29 997,00
Licence subscription 1 Jan to Dec 2023 Surtech Solutions Sole provider CFO 01/21 141 515,55
FASSET internship programme Ubuntu Institute Only one quote obtained Once off 883 401,12
Catering for AU peace talks (Ethiopian visit) Kgwerano Hospitality Services RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 251 380,00
Groceries for AU peace talks (Ethiopian
visit) Bogosi General Traders RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 20 077,42
Meat for AU peace talks (Ethiopian visit) Bogosi General Traders RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 34 492,93
Waitrons for the official luncheon in
honour of the Prime Minister of Spain The Capital Hotel School Less than three quotations obtained Once off 3 925,00
Cocktail for AU peace talks (Ethiopian visit) Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 128 397,50
Annual maintenance of teammate software
licences
Wolters Kluwer Tax and Accounting
Southern Africa PTY Ltd Sole provider ACFO/149/22 58 108,66
Landscaping services at King Shaka
International Airport Bidvest Topturf Emergency DIRCO 08/2019/2020 5 578,87
Procurement of framing and packaging of
gifts Yemrha Holdings RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 14 000,00
Groceries for Johnny Makhathini
Guesthouse Sizoka Trading RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 66 271,32
Groceries for Soutpansberg Guesthouse Bondirite RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 29 456,68
Table setup and décor for lunch hosted by
Minister Café Kotula Less than three quotations obtained Once off 15 695,00
Online Butterworths forms and procedures LexisNexis Sole provider Once off 10 605,72

258
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Meat to host the Nigerian Foreign Minister
at the State Guesthouse Sizoka Trading and Projects Less than three quotations obtained Once off 23 069,73
Groceries to host the Nigerian Foreign
Minister at the State Guesthouse Sizoka Trading and Projects Less than three quotations obtained Once off 15 138,26
International law journals Sonitas Ad Vitam Cc Less than three quotations obtained RFQ 2022/11/033 160 080,00
Online services Juta Less than three quotations obtained RFQ 2022/11/032 228 588,00
Catering Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 12 161,25
Annual subscription fee The South African Institute of
Chartered Accountants Sole provider Once off 8 006,00
Catering services Freedom Park Sole provider Once off 11 198,75
Condition assessment of Official Residence
in Maseru, Lesotho Ukuza Consulting Less than three quotations obtained Once off 155 800,00
Venue inclusive of catering, décor and
technical requirements for the 2023
Ubuntu Awards
Cape Town International Convention
Centre Closed tender Once off 3 725 925,33
SABC live broadcast of Ubuntu Awards 2023
in Cape Town SABC Requests for quotations were sent to two
suppliers Once off 499 900,00
Online labour law judgments Sabinet Online Sole provider Once off 112 426,30
Online POPIA portal Juta & Company Sole provider Once off 30 811,40
Décor during SOM Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 13 567,17
Groceries Les Cuisine RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 59 873,44
Meat Les Cuisine RFQ was advertised for less than seven days. Once off 39 367,00
Fish Les Cuisine RFQ was advertised for less than seven days. Once off 24 615,00
Beverages Les Cuisine RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 20 550,00
Fruits and vegetables Les Cuisine RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 28 500,00
Workshop on mental health for first aiders
in the workplace Intelligence Transfer Centre Cc Sole provider Once off 36 765,40

259ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
PFMA COMPLIANCE REPORT
Project description Name of supplier Type of procurement by other means Contract number Value of contact
R’000
Security services to attend security threat
and risk assessment course Vision DCI Sole provider Once off 5 290,00
Interpreting equipment and translations
services during the Pan African Parliament
seating
Congress Rental Sole provider Once off 290 490,00
Security services to attend security policy
course Vision DCI Sole provider Once off 4 490,00
Waitrons to serve during State Visit
between RSA and Tanzania Black Currant Hospitality Management Less than three quotations obtained Once off 11 375,00
Membership renewal South African Quality Institute (SAQI) Sole provider Once off 3 200,00
SABC live broadcast during Charlotte
Maxeke African Women Leadership Awards
2023
SABC Less than three quotations obtained Once off 350 000,00
Groceries Imperatriz RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 7 738,00
Newspaper direct (press reader) Calendria 159 Sole provider Con 12/2022 119 950,00
Décor and table flowers SA-Cuba JCM Café Kotula RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off  3 300,00
Cleaning services Searchlight cleaning Contract Extension Contract Extension 495 107,92
Technical specialist services Gen 2 Sole provider Once off 655 500,00
Venue Hire for Charlotte Maxeke African
women conference Travel with flair Venue hire for Charlotte Maxeke Once off 458 677,89
Waiters Black apron RFQ was advertised for less than seven days Once off 20 228,00
1 667 513,81
Total 37 343 192,44

260
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
3.2. Contract variations and expansions
Project description Name of supplier
Contract modification
type
(Expansion or
Variation)
Contract number
Original
contract value
Value of
previous
contract
expansion/s
or variation/s
(if applicable)
Value of
current
contract
expansion or
variation
R’000 R’000 R’000
Appointment for a service provider to
provide travel management services to
DIRCO for the period of 36 months
Travel with Flair Expansion DIRCO:8–2018/2019 4 700 391,00 955 558.25
Appointment for a service provider to
provide travel management services to
DIRCO for the period of 36 months
Atlantis Travel Expansion DIRCO:8–2018/2019 3 534 540,00 1 010 472.39
Appointment of a service provider
to provide cleaning services at state
protocol lounges
Searchlight T/A Addscape Expansion DIRCO:5–2018/2019 8 229 038,00 1 237 769.80
Appointment of a service provider for
transportation of Diplomatic freight “AF”
bags to and from Head Office
DHL International Expansion DIRCO:4–2019/2020 18 180 640.04 763 204.25
Appointment of GEN2 Enterprises
Services as sole service provider to
provide technical specialist services for
384 hours spread over a period of one
year
GEN2 Variation of hours by 192
hours
DGO/90/09 –
CFO:002/21 419 520.00 209 760.00
Total 35 064 129,04 4 176 764,69

PART F:
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
261ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6

262
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
Report of the Auditor–General 263
Appropriation Statement 274
Notes to the Appropriation Statement 286
Statement of Financial Performance 289
Statement of Financial Position 291
Statement of Changes in Net Assets 293
Cash Flow Statement 295
Accounting Policies 297-304
Notes to the annual financial statements 305-392
Annexures 394-411
PART F: FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONTENTS

263ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Report of the auditor–general to Parliament on vote no. 6:
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
1. I have audited the financial statements of the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) set out on pages 274 to 393, which
comprise the appropriation statement, statement of financial position as at 31
March 2023, statement of financial performance, statement of changes in net
assets, and cash flow statement for the year then ended, as well as notes to the
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
2. In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of DIRCO as at 31 March 2023, and its financial performance
and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Modified Cash
Standard (MCS) prescribed by National Treasury and the requirements of the
Public Finance Management Act 1 of 1999 (PFMA).
Basis for opinion
3. I conducted my audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing
(ISAs). My responsibilities under those standards are further described in the
responsibilities of the auditor–general for the audit of the financial statements
section of my report.
4. I am independent of the department in accordance with the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International code of ethics for professional
accountants (including International Independence Standards) (IESBA code)
as well as other ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit in South
Africa. I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements and the IESBA code.
5. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for my opinion.
Emphasis of matters
6. I draw attention to the matters below. My opinion is not modified in respect of
these matters.
Irregular expenditure
7. As disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements, irregular expenditure of
R1 439 514 000 was incurred in the current year, mainly emanating from non–
compliance with supply chain management prescripts.
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure
8. As disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure of R7 427 000 was incurred in the current year, mainly due to
rental payments for unoccupied residential accommodation and chanceries.
Other matters
9. I draw attention to the matters below. My opinion is not modified in respect of
these matters.
Unaudited supplementary schedules
10. The supplementary information set out on pages 394 to 411 does not form part
of the financial statements and is presented as additional information. I have
not audited these schedules and, accordingly, I do not express an opinion on
them.

264
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
National Treasury Instruction Note No. 4 of 2022–23: PFMA compliance
and reporting framework
11. On 23 December 2022 National Treasury issued Instruction Note No. 4: PFMA
Compliance and Reporting Framework of 2022–23 in terms of section 76(1)
(b), (e) and (f), 2(e) and (4)(a) and (c) of the PFMA, which came into effect
on 3 January 2023. The PFMA Compliance and Reporting Framework also
addresses the disclosure of unauthorised expenditure, irregular expenditure
and fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Among the effects of this framework
is that irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure incurred in previous
financial years and not addressed is no longer disclosed in the notes of the
annual financial statements, only the current year and prior year figures are
disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements. The movements in respect
of irregular expenditure and fruitless and wasteful expenditure are no longer
required to be disclosed in the notes to the annual financial statements of
DIRCO. The disclosure of these movements (e.g. condoned, recoverable,
removed, written off, under assessment, under determination and under
investigation) is now required to be included as part of other information in the
annual report of the auditees.
12. I do not express an opinion on the disclosure of irregular and fruitless and
wasteful expenditure in the annual report.
Responsibilities of the accounting officer for the financial statements
13. The accounting officer is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation
of the financial statements in accordance with the MCS and the requirements
of the PFMA; and for such internal control as the accounting officer determines
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
14. In preparing the financial statements, the accounting officer is responsible for
assessing the department’s ability to continue as a going concern; disclosing,
as applicable, matters relating to going concern; and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the appropriate governance structure either intends
to liquidate the department or to cease operations or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.
Responsibilities of the auditor–general for the audit of the financial
statements
15. My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error; and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.
16. A further description of my responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements is included in the annexure to this auditor’s report.
Report on the audit of the annual performance report
17. In accordance with the Public Audit Act 25 of 2004 (PAA) and the general notice
issued in terms thereof, I must audit and report on the usefulness and reliability
of the reported performance against predetermined objectives for selected
programmes presented in the annual performance report. The accounting
officer is responsible for the preparation of the annual performance report.
18. I selected the following programmes presented in the annual performance report
for the year ended 31 March 2023 for auditing. I selected the programmes that
measures the department’s performance on its primary mandated functions
and that is of significant national, community or public interest.

265ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Programme Page
numbers Purpose
Programme 2:
International Relations 73-118 Promote relations with foreign
countries
Programme 3:
International
Cooperation
126-184
Participate in initiatives of
international organisations and
institutions in line with South Africa’s
national values and foreign policy
objectives
19. I evaluated the reported performance information for the selected programmes
against the criteria developed from the performance management and reporting
framework, as defined in the general notice. When an annual performance
report is prepared using these criteria, it provides useful and reliable information
and insights to users on the department’s planning and delivery on its mandate
and objectives.
20. I performed procedures to test whether:
• the indicators used for planning and reporting on performance can be
linked directly to the department’s mandate and the achievement of its
planned objectives
• the indicators are well defined and verifiable to ensure that they are easy
to understand and apply consistently and that I can confirm the methods
and processes to be used for measuring achievements
• the targets can be linked directly to the achievement of the indicators
and are specific, time bound and measurable to ensure that it is easy to
understand what should be delivered and by when, the required level of
performance as well as how performance will be evaluated
• the indicators and targets reported on in the annual performance report
are the same as were committed to in the approved initial or revised
planning documents
• the reported performance information is presented in the annual
performance report in the prescribed manner
• there is adequate supporting evidence for the achievements reported and
for the reasons provided for any over– or underachievement of targets.
21. I performed the procedures for the purpose of reporting material findings only;
and not to express an assurance opinion.
22. I did not identify any material findings on the reported performance information
for the selected programmes.
Other matters
23. I draw attention to the matters below.
Achievement of planned targets
24. The annual performance report includes information on reported achievements
against planned targets and provides explanations for over– and under
achievements.
Material misstatement
25. I identified a material misstatement in the annual performance report submitted
for auditing. This material misstatement was in the reported performance
information of programme 3: International Cooperation. Management
subsequently corrected the misstatement, and I did not include any material
findings in this report.

266
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Report on compliance with legislation
26. In accordance with the PAA and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I must
audit and report on compliance with applicable legislation relating to financial
matters, financial management and other related matters. The accounting
officer is responsible for the department’s compliance with legislation.
27. I performed procedures to test compliance with selected requirements in key
legislation in accordance with the findings engagement methodology of the
Auditor–General of South Africa (AGSA). This engagement is not an assurance
engagement. Accordingly, I do not express an and assurance opinion or
conclusion.
28. Through an established AGSA process, I selected requirements in key legislation
for compliance testing that are relevant to the financial and performance
management of the department, clear to allow for consistent measurement
and evaluation, while also sufficiently detailed and readily available to report in
an understandable manner. The selected legislative requirements are included
in the annexure to this auditor’s report.
29. The material findings on compliance with the selected legislative requirements,
presented per compliance theme, are as follows:
Expenditure management
30. Effective and appropriate steps were not taken to prevent irregular expenditure,
as disclosed in note 30 to the annual financial statements, as required by
section 38(1)(c)(ii) of the PFMA and treasury regulation 9.1.1. The majority of
the irregular expenditure was caused by non–compliance with supply chain
management prescripts at missions.
31. Effective and appropriate steps were not taken to prevent fruitless and wasteful
expenditure as disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements, as required
by section 38(1)(c)(ii) of the PFMA and treasury regulation 9.1.1. The majority
of the fruitless and wasteful expenditure was caused by rental payments for
unoccupied residential accommodation and chanceries.
Consequence management
32. I was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that disciplinary
steps were taken against officials who had incurred irregular and fruitless and
wasteful expenditure as required by section 38(1)(h)(iii) of the PFMA. This was
because not all instances of irregular and fruitless and wasteful expenditure
reported in the prior year were investigated.
Procurement and contract management
33. Some of the goods and services of a transaction value above R1 000 000 were
procured without inviting competitive bids and deviations were not approved by
the accounting officer, as required by Treasury regulation 16A6.1, paragraph
3.3.1 of SCM Instruction No. 02 of 2021–22 , paragraph 4.1 of SCM Instruction
No. 03 of 2021–22 and Treasury regulation 16A6.4.
34. Some of the goods and services were procured without obtaining at least three
written price quotations in accordance with Treasury Regulation 16A6.1 and
paragraph 3.2.1 of SCM instruction No. 02 of 2021–22. The majority of these
emanate from the missions. Similar non–compliance was also reported in the
prior year
Revenue management
35. Effective and appropriate steps were not taken to collect all money due, as
required by section 38(1)(c)(i) of the PFMA.

267ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Other information in the annual report
36. The accounting officer is responsible for the other information included in the
annual report. The other information referred to does not include the financial
statements, the auditor’s report and those selected programmes presented in
the annual performance report that have been specifically reported on in this
auditor’s report.
37. My opinion on the financial statements, the report on the audit of the annual
performance report and the report on compliance with legislation, do not cover
the other information included in the annual report and I do not express an
audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion on it.
38. My responsibility is to read this other information and, in doing so, consider
whether it is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the selected
programmes presented in the annual performance report, or my knowledge
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
39. The other information I obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report is the
foreword by the executive authority, report of the accounting officer, overview of
the departmental performance, overview of human resources and governance.
The deputy ministers’ statement, strategic overview and report of the audit
committee are expected to be made available to us after 31 July 2023.
40. If, based on the work I have performed on the other information that I obtained
prior to the date of this auditor’s report, I conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, I am required to report that fact. I have
nothing to report in this regard.
41. When I do receive and read the deputy ministers’ statement, strategic
overview and report of the audit committee, if I conclude that there is a material
misstatement therein, I am required to communicate the matter to those
charged with governance and request that the other information be corrected. If
the other information is not corrected, I may have to retract this auditor’s report
and re–issue an amended report as appropriate. However, if it is corrected this
will not be necessary.
Internal control deficiencies
42. I considered internal control relevant to my audit of the financial statements,
annual performance report and compliance with applicable legislation; however,
my objective was not to express any form of assurance on it.
43. The matters reported below are limited to the significant internal control
deficiencies that resulted in the material findings on compliance with legislation
included in this report.
44. The oversight by the accounting officer regarding compliance monitoring was
not effective due to non–compliance not being prevented. Senior management
involved in compliance monitoring processes did not take accountability to
address previously reported significant deficiencies and non–compliance
with legislation as repeat non–compliances were noted in this regard. The
processes around compliance monitoring by both the accounting officer and
senior management must be enhanced.

268
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
45. The lack of consequence management, in respect of officials that allow
or permit non–compliance with laws and regulations to take place, must
be addressed, to ensure there are consequences in accordance with the
department’s performance management policies, for failing to comply with
legislative prescripts and repeat audit findings.
Pretoria
02 August 2023

269ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Annexure to the auditor’s report
The annexure includes the following:
• the auditor-general’s responsibility for the audit
• the selected legislative requirements for compliance testing.
Auditor-general’s responsibility for the audit
Professional judgement and professional scepticism
As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, I exercise professional judgement
and maintain professional scepticism throughout my audit of the financial statements
and the procedures performed on reported performance information for selected
programmes and on the department’s compliance with selected requirements in key
legislation.
Financial statements
In addition to my responsibility for the audit of the financial statements as described
in this auditor’s report, I also:
• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to fraud or error; design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks; and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the
override of internal control
• obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the department’s
internal control
• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made
• conclude on the appropriateness of the use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements. I also conclude,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists
relating to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability
of the department to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements about the material uncertainty
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion on the financial
statements. My conclusions are based on the information available to me at the
date of this auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a
department to cease operating as a going concern
• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial
statements, including the disclosures, and determine whether the financial
statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
Communication with those charged with governance
I communicate with the accounting officer regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit.
I also provide the accounting officer with a statement that I have complied with
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence and to communicate with
them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on my independence and, where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or
safeguards applied.

270
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Compliance with legislation – selected legislative requirements
The selected legislative requirements are as follows:
Legislation Sections or regulations
Public Finance Management Act
No.1 of 1999 (PFMA)
Section 1
Section 38(1)(a)(iv); 38(1)(b);38(1)(c);38(1)(c)(i); 38(1)(c)(ii); 38(1)(d); 38(1)(h)(iii);
Section 39(1)(a); 39(2)(a);
Section 40(1)(a); 40(1)(b); 40(1)(c)(i)
Section 43(4); 44; 44 (1) and (2); 45(b);
Treasury Regulations for
departments, trading entities,
constitutional institutions and public
entities (TR)
Treasury Regulation 4.1.1; 4.1.3
Treasury Regulation 5.1.1; 5.2.1; 5.2.3(a); 5.2.3(d); 5.3.1
Treasury Regulation 6.3.1(a); 6.3.1(b); 6.3.1(c’); 6.3.1(d); 6.4.1(b)
Treasury Regulation 7.2.1
Treasury Regulation 8.1.1; 8.2.1; 8.2.2; 8.2.3; 8.4.1
Treasury Regulation 9.1.1; 9.1.4
Treasury Regulation 10.1.1(a); 10.1.2
Treasury Regulation 11.4.1; 11.4.2; 11.5.1
Treasury Regulation 12.5.1
Treasury Regulation 15.10.1.2(c’)
Treasury Regulation 16A3.1 ; 16A 3.2; 16A 3.2(a); 16A 6.1; 16A6.2(a) ,(b) & (e) ; 16A 6.3(a); 16A 6.3(a)(i);16A 6.3(b); 16A
6.3(c);16A6.3(d) ; 16A 6.3(e); 16A 6.4; 16A 6.5; 16A 6.6; 16A7.1; 16A.7.3; 16A.7.6; 16A.7.7; TR 16A8.2 (1) and (2); 16A 8.3
16A8.3 (d); 16A 8.4; 16A9; 16A9.1; 16A9.1(b)(ii);16A9.1 (c); 16A 9.1(d); 16A 9.1(e); 116A9.2; 16A9.2(a)(ii) &(iii); 16A9.1(f).
Treasury Regulation 17.1.1
Treasury Regulation 18.2
Treasury Regulation 19.8.4
Public service regulation Public service regulation 13(c);18; 18 (1) and (2); 25(1)(e)(i); 25(1)(e)(iii)

271ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Legislation Sections or regulations
Prevention and Combating of
Corrupt Activities Act No.12 of 2004
(PRECCA)
Section 29
Section 34(1)
Construction Industry Development
Board Act No.38 of 2000 (CIDB)
Section 18(1)
Construction Industry Development
Board Regulations
CIDB regulation 17; 25(1); 25 (5) & 25(7A)
Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act No. 5 of 2000
(PPPFA)
Section 1(i); 2.1(a); 2.1(b); 2.1(f)
Preferential Procurement
Regulations, 2017
Paragraph 4.1; 4.2
Paragraph 5.1; 5.3; 5.6; 5.7
Paragraph 6.1; 6.2; 6.3; 6.5; 6.6; 6.8
Paragraph 7.1; 7.2; 7.3; 7.5; 7.6; 7.8
Paragraph 8.2; 8.5
Paragraph 9.1; 9.2
Paragraph 10.1; 10.2
Paragraph 11.1; 11.2
Paragraph 12.1 and 12.2
Preferential Procurement
Regulations, 2022
Paragraph 3.1
Paragraph 4.1; 4.2; 4.3; 4.4
Paragraph 5.1; 5.2; 5.3; 5.4
The State Information Technology
Agency Act No. 88 of 1998 (SITA)
Section 7(3)
Section 7(6)(b)
Section 20(1)(a)(I)

272
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Legislation Sections or regulations
State Information Technology Agency
Regulations, (SITA regulations)
Regulation 8.1.1 (b); 8.1.4; 8.1.7
Regulation 9.6; 9.4
Regulation 12.3
Regulation 13.1 (a)
Regulation 14.1; 14.2
Public Finance Management Act
No.1 of 1999 (PFMA) Supply Chain
Management (SCM) Instruction Note
09 of 2022/2023
Paragraph 3.1; 3.3 (b); 3.3 (c); 3.3 (e ); 3.6
National Treasury Instruction (NTI)
No.1 of 2015/16
Paragraph 3.1; 4.1; 4.2
National Treasury Supply Chain
Management (NT SCM) Instruction
Note 03 2021/22
Paragraph 4.1; 4.2 (b); 4.3; 4.4; 4.4 (a);4.4 (c) -(d); 4.6
Paragraph 5.4
Paragraph 7.2; 7.6
National Treasury Supply Chain
Management (NT SCM) Instruction
Note 4A of 2016/17
Paragraph 6
National Treasury Supply Chain
Management (NT SCM) Instruction
Note 03 2019/20
Par 5.5.1(vi); Paragraph 5.5.1(x);
National Treasury Supply Chain
Management (NT SCM) Instruction
Note 11 2020/21
Paragraph 3.1; 3.4 (a) and (b); 3.9; 6.1;6.2;6.7
National Treasury Supply Chain
Management (NT SCM) Instruction
Note 2 of 2021/22
Paragraph 3.2.1; 3.2.2; 3.2.4(a) and (b) ; 3.3.1; 3.2.2
Paragraph 4.1

273ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Legislation Sections or regulations
Public Finance Management Act
No.1 of 1999 (PFMA) Supply Chain
Management (SCM) Instruction Note
04 of 2022/23
Paragraph 4(1); 4(2); 4(4)
Practice Note 5 of 2009/10 Paragraph 3.3
Public Finance Management Act
No.1 of 1999 (PFMA) Supply Chain
Management (SCM) instruction Note
08 of 2022/23
Paragraph 3.2
Paragraph 4.3.2 and 4.3.3
Competition Act No 89 of 1998 Section 4(1)(b)(ii)
Competition Act No.89 of 1998 Section 4(1)(b)(ii)
National Treasury Instruction (NTI)
note 4 of 2015/16
Paragraph 3.4
Second amendment of National
Treasury Instruction (NTI) 05 of
2020/21 – Annexure A
Paragraph 4.8; 4.9; 5.1; 5.3
Erratum National Treasury Instruction
(NTI) note 5 of 2020/21
Paragraph 1
Erratum National Treasury Instruction
(NTI) note 5 of 2020/21
Paragraph 2
Practice note 7 of 2009/10 Paragraph 4.1.2
Practice note 11 of 2008/9 Paragraph 3.1
Paragraph 3.1 (b)
National Treasury Instruction (NTI)
note 1 of 2021/22
Paragraph 4.1
Public Service Act Section 30 (1)
Foreign Service Act 26 of 2019 (FSA) Section 9(3); 9(4)

274
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
APPROPRIATION PER PROGRAMME
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Programme
1. Administration  1 776 378 –  (88 207)  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776 98,6%  1 626 687  1 348 528
2. International Relations  3 383 213 –  3 057  3 386 270 3 375 344 10 926 99,7%  3 354 652  3 275 846
3. International Cooperation  507 881 –  51 750  559 631  558 139  1 492 99,7%  493 594  472 256
4. Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services  303 422 –  33 400  336 822  335 808  1 014 99,7%  293 839  262 547
5. International Transfers  813 424 – –  813 424  773 871  39 553 95,1%  749 100  677 833
Subtotal  6 784 318 – –  6 784 318  6 707 557 76 761 98,9%  6 517 872  6 037 010
2022/23 2021/22
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Total (brought forward)
Reconciliation with statement of financial performance
ADD
Departmental receipts 186 154 63 981
NRF Receipts –
Aid assistance –
Actual amounts per statement of financial performance (Total revenue) 6 970 472 6 581 853
ADD
Aid assistance
Prior year unauthorised expenditure approved without funding
Actual amounts per statement of financial performance (Total expenditure) 6 707 557 6 037 010

275ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
APPROPRIATION PER ECONOMIC CLASSIFICATION
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Economic classification
Current payments  5 548 791  (17 400)  (3 900)  5 527 491  5 607 972  (80 481) 101,5%  5 255 223  5 119 224
Compensation of employees  3 025 585  –  –  3 025 585  3 057 465  (31 880) 101,1%  2 852 045  2 951 882
Goods and services  2 392 100  (27 100)  (3 900)  2 361 100 2 409 734 (48 634) 102,1%  2 277 811  2 042 336
Interest and rent on land  131 106  9 700  –  140 806  140 773  33 100,0%  125 367  125 006
Transfers and subsidies  849 814  –  –  849 814  793 056  56 758 93,3%  810 031  719 764
Provinces and municipalities – – – – – – – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  61 370  –  –  61 370  49 699  11 671 81,0%  59 798  48 546
Higher education institutions – – – – – – – – –
Foreign governments and international organisations  752 054  –  –  752 054  724 172  27 882 96,3%  689 302  629 287
Public corporations and private enterprises – – – – – – – – –
Non–profit institutions – – – – – – – – –
Households  36 390  –  –  36 390  19 185  17 205 52,7%  60 931  41 931
Payments for capital assets  385 713  –  –  385 713 285 729  99 984 74,1%  333 356  89 412
Buildings and other fixed structures  116 958  (3 871)  (39 550)  73 537  32 076  41 461 43,6%  92 469  31 134
Machinery and equipment  268 755  (87 680)  39 550  220 625  162 102  58 523 73,5%  240 698  58 088
Heritage assets – – – – – – – – –
Specialised military assets – – – – – – – – –
Biological assets – – – – – – – – –
Land and subsoil assets – – – – – – – – –
Intangible assets  –  91 551  –  91 551  91 551  – 100,0%  189  189
Payments for financial assets  –  17 400  3 900  21 300  20 800  500 97,7%  119 262  108 610
Total  6 784 318  –  –  6 784 318  6 707 557 76 761 98,9%  6 517 872  6 037 010

276
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 1: ADMINISTRATION
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Subprogramme
1. Ministry  7 114  –  –  7 114  6 753  361 94,9%  6 599  6 401
2. Departmental Management  12 600  –  (2 700)  9 900  9 826  74 99,3%  13 974  13 766
3. Audit Services  23 319  (2 000)  (4 200)  17 119  16 771  348 98,0%  21 660  16 328
4. Financial Management  195 937  6 500  (6 588)  195 849  192 369  3 480 98,2%  182 841  175 092
5. Corporate Services  917 048  (2 500)  (14 619)  899 929  893 680  6 249 99,3%  843 597 664 614
6. Diplomatic Training, Research And Development  56 397  (3 500)  (2 450)  50 447  50 052  395 99,2%  46 382  44 497
7. Foreign Fixed Assets Management  116 053  –  (42 850)  73 203  63 017  10 186 86,1%  83 973  18 086
8. Office Accommodation  447 910  1 500  (14 800)  434 610  431 927  2 683 99,4%  427 661  409 744
Total for subprogrammes  1 776 378  –  (88 207)  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776 98,6%  1 626 687  1 348 528

277ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 1: ADMINISTRATION
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Economic classification
Current payments  1 410 427  (2 000)  (37 100)  1 371 327  1 406 021  (34 694) 102,59%  1 341 729  1 273 050
Compensation of employees  504 717  –  (16 800)  487 917  486 789  1 128 99,8%  489 982  488 745
Goods and services  774 604  (11 700)  (20 300)  742 604  778 459  (35 855) 104,8%  726 380  659 299
Interest and rent on land  131 106  9 700  –  140 806  140 773  33 100,0%  125 367  125 006
Transfers and subsidies  1 827  –  2 443  4 270  3 381  889 79,2%  3 414  2 045
Provinces and municipalities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Foreign governments and international organisations  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Non–profit institutions – –
Households  1 827  –  2 443  4 270  3 381  889 79,2%  3 414  2 045
Payments for capital assets  364 124  –  (53 550)  310 574 253 133 57 441 81,5%  279 692  71 670
Buildings and other fixed structures  116 958  (3 871)  (39 550)  73 537  32 076  41 461 43,6%  92 469  31 134
Machinery and equipment  247 166  (87 680)  (14 000)  145 486 129 506 15 980 89,0%  187 034  40 347
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Intangible assets  –  91 551  –  91 551  91 551  – 100,0%  189  189
Payments for financial assets  –  2 000  –  2 000  1 860  140 93,0%  1 852  1 763
Total  1 776 378  –  (88 207)  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776 98,6%  1 626 687  1 348 528

278
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 2: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Subprogramme
1. Africa  1 129 600  (20 200)  6 600  1 116 000 1 113 813 2 187 99,8%  1 044 688  1 030 208
2. Asia And Middle East  966 799  10 619  (3 300)  974 118  973 837  281 100,0%  962 018  942 060
3. Americas And Caribbean  446 579  18 600  (1 643)  463 536 462 517  1 019 99,8%  470 341  465 317
4. Europe  840 235  (9 019)  1 400  832 616  825 177  7 439 99,1%  877 605  838 261
Total for subprogrammes  3 383 213  –  3 057  3 386 270 3 375 344 10 926 99,7%  3 354 652  3 275 846

279ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 2: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Economic classification
Current payments  3 338 004  (15 400)  (20 500)  3 302 104  3 322 506 (20 402) 100,6%  3 145 405  3 110 478
Compensation of employees  1 997 624  –  4 100  2 001 724  2 024 714  (22 990) 101,1%  1 860 323  1 947 681
Goods and services  1 340 380  (15 400)  (24 600)  1 300 380 1 297 792  2 588 99,8%  1 285 082  1 162 797
Interest and rent on land  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Transfers and subsidies  29 504  –  (2 443)  27 061  12 973  14 088 47,9%  51 447  36 834
Provinces and municipalities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Foreign governments and international organisations  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Non–profit institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Households  29 504  –  (2 443)  27 061  12 973  14 088 47,9%  51 447  36 834
Payments for capital assets  15 705  –  26 000  41 705  24 747  16 958 59,3%  42 200  15 828
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Machinery and equipment  15 705  –  26 000  41 705  24 747  16 958 59,3%  42 200  15 828
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Intangible assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Payments for financial assets  –  15 400  –  15 400  15 118  282 98,2%  115 600  112 706
Total  3 383 213  –  3 057  3 386 270  3 375 344  10 926 99,7%  3 354 652  3 275 846

280
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 3: INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Subprogramme
1. Global System Of Governance  357 112  –  36 555  393 667  393 538  129 100,0%  355 140  343 903
2. Continental Cooperation  74 642  –  12 300  86 942  85 920  1 022 98,8%  66 244  58 202
3. South–South Cooperation  5 531  –  195  5 726  5 650  76 98,7%  5 095  4 462
4. North–South Dialogue  70 596  –  2 700  73 296  73 031  265 99,6%  67 115  65 689
Total for subprogrammes  507 881  –  51 750  559 631  558 139  1 492 99,7%  493 594  472 256

281ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 3: INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Economic classification
Current payments  500 261  –  34 800  535 061  544 568  (9 507) 101,8%  476 527  474 320
Compensation of employees  340 642  –  16 800  357 442  367 726  (10 284) 102,9%  323 986  340 873
Goods and services  159 619  –  18 000  177 619  176 842  777 99,6%  152 541  133 447
Interest and rent on land  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Transfers and subsidies  3 276  –  –  3 276  1 972  1 304 60,2%  4 239  1 899
Provinces and municipalities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Foreign governments and international organisations  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Non–profit institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Households  3 276  –  –  3 276  1 972  1 304 60,2%  4 239  1 899
Payments for capital assets  4 344  –  13 050  17 394  7 777  9 617 44,7%  11 028 1 906
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Machinery and equipment  4 344  –  13 050  17 394  7 777  9 617 44,7%  11 028  1 906
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Intangible assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Payments for financial assets  –  –  3 900  3 900  3 822  78 98,0%  1 800  (5 869)
Total  507 881  –  51 750  559 631  558 139  1 492 99,7%  493 594  472 256

282
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 4: PUBLIC DIPLOMACY AND PROTOCOL SERVICES
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Subprogramme
1. Public Diplomacy  71 337  (50)  (2 020)  69 267  83 571  (14 304) 120,7%  62 467  58 905
2. Protocol Services  232 085  50  35 420  267 555  252 237  15 318 94,3%  231 372  203 642
Total for subprogrammes  303 422  –  33 400  336 822  335 808  1 014 99,7%  293 839  262 547
Economic classification
Current payments  300 099  –  18 900  318 999  334 877  (15 878) 105,0%  291 562  261 376
Compensation of employees  182 602  –  (4 100)  178 502  178 236  266 99,9%  177 754  174 583
Goods and services  117 497  –  23 000  140 497  156 641  (16 144) 111,5%  113 808  86 793
Interest and rent on land  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Transfers and subsidies  1 783  –  –  1 783  859  924 48,2%  1 831  1 153
Provinces and municipalities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Foreign governments and international organisations  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Non–profit institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Households  1 783  –  –  1 783  859  924 48,2%  1 831  1 153

283ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 4: PUBLIC DIPLOMACY AND PROTOCOL SERVICES
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Payments for capital assets  1 540  –  14 500  16 040  72  15 968 0,4%  436  8
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Machinery and equipment  1 540  –  14 500  16 040  72  15 968 0,4%  436  8
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Intangible assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Payments for financial assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  10  10
Total  303 422  –  33 400  336 822 335 808  1 014 99,7%  293 839  262 547

284
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 5: INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Subprogramme
1. Departmental Agencies  61 370  –  –  61 370  49 699  11 671 81,0%  59 798  48 546
2. Membership Contribution  752 054  –  –  752 054  724 172  27 882 96,3%  689 302  629 287
Total for sub programmes  813 424  –  –  813 424  773 871  39 553 95,1%  749 100  677 833
Economic classification
Current payments  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Compensation of employees  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Goods and services  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Interest and rent on land  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Transfers and subsidies  813 424  –  –  813 424  773 871  39 553 95,1%  749 100  677 833
Provinces and municipalities  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Departmental agencies and accounts  61 370  –  –  61 370  49 699  11 671 81,0%  59 798  48 546
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Foreign governments and international organisations  752 054  –  –  752 054  724 172  27 882 96,3%  689 302  629 287
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Non–profit institutions  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Households  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –

285ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PROGRAMME 5: INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS
2022/23 2021/22
Approved
Budget
Shifting of
Funds Virement
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure Variance
Expenditure
as % of
Final
Budget
Final
Budget
Actual
Expenditure
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Payments for capital assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Machinery and equipment  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –
Intangible assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Payments for financial assets  –  –  –  –  –  –  – – –
Total  813 424  –  –  813 424  773 871  39 553 95,1%  749 100  677 833

286
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
1. DETAIL OF TRANSFERS AND SUBSIDIES AS PER APPROPRIATION ACT (AFTER VIREMENT)
Detail of these transactions can be viewed in the note on Transfers and Subsidies, and Annexure 1A–H of the Annual Financial Statements.
2. DETAIL OF SPECIFICALL Y AND EXCLUSIVEL Y APPROPRIATED AMOUNTS VOTED (AFTER VIREMENT)
Detail of these transactions can be viewed in the note on Annual Appropriation to the Annual Financial Statements.
3. DETAIL ON PA YMENTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS
Detail of these transactions can be viewed in the note on Payments for financial assets to the Annual Financial Statements.
4. EXPLANATIONS OF MATERIAL VARIANCES FROM AMOUNTS VOTED (AFTER VIREMENT):
4.1. Per programme
Programme
Final Budget Actual
Expenditure Variance Variance as a %
of Final Budget
R’000 R’000 R’000 %
Administration  1 688 171  1 664 395  23 776 1%
International Relations  3 386 270  3 375 344  10 926 0%
International Cooperation  559 631  558 139  1 492 0%
Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services  336 822  335 808  1 014 0%
International Transfers  813 424  773 871  39 553 5%
Total 6 784 318 6 707 557 76 761 1%

287ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
4.2. Per economic classification
Economic classification
Final Budget Actual
Expenditure Variance Variance as a %
of Final Budget
R’000 R’000 R’000 %
Current payments
Compensation of employees  3 025 585  3 057 465  (31 880) (1%)
Goods and services  2 361 100 2 409 734 (48 634) (2%)
Interest and rent on land  140 806  140 773  33 0%
Transfers and subsidies
Provinces and municipalities – – – –
Departmental agencies and accounts  61 370  49 699  11 671 19%
Higher education institutions  –  –  –  –
Public corporations and private enterprises  –  –  –  –
Foreign governments and international organisations  752 054  724 172  27 882 4%
Non–profit institutions  –  –  –  –
Households  36 390  19 185  17 205 47%
Payments for capital assets
Buildings and other fixed structures  73 537  32 076  41 461 56%
Machinery and equipment  220 625 162 102 58 523 73,5%
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  –
Intangible assets  91 551  91 551  – 0%
Payments for financial assets  21 300  20 800  500 2%
Total  6 784 318 6 707 557  76 761 1%

288
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE APPROPRIATION STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Compensation of employees
Variance is primarily attributable to depreciation of the Rand against major foreign currencies
Goods and services
Variance is primarily attributable to depreciation of the Rand against major foreign currencies
Transfers and subsidies
Variance on transfers and subsidies is primarily attributable to unspent funds earmarked for SADPA due to non–operationalisation of SADPA and membership fees for African,
Caribbean and Pacific Group of States that was discontinued as well as a decrease in payments for leave gratuity and severance packages paid to officials as a result of natural attrition.
Payment for capital assets
Variance is primarily attributable to the delay in ICT infrastructure and property maintenance and renovation projects.

289ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
REVENUE
Annual appropriation 1  6 784 318 6 517 872
Statutory appropriation 2  – –
Departmental revenue 3 186 154 63 981
NRF receipts  – –
Aid assistance  – –
Total REVENUE 6 970 472 6 581 853
EXPENDITURE
Current expenditure 5 607 972 5 121 927
Compensation of employees 5  3 057 465 2 951 882
Goods and services 6  2 409 734 2 045 039
Interest and rent on land 7  140 773 125 006
Aid assistance 4  – –
Transfers and subsidies 793 056 719 764
Transfers and subsidies 9  793 056 719 764
Aid assistance 4  – –
Expenditure for capital assets 285 729 86 709
Tangible assets 10  194 178 86 520
Intangible assets 10  91 551 189
Unauthorised expenditure approved without funding – –
Payments for financial assets 8 20 800 108 610
Total EXPENDITURE 6 707 557 6 037 010
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) FOR THE YEAR 262 915 544 843
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
for the year ended 31 March 2023

290
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Reconciliation of Net Surplus/(Deficit) for the year
Voted funds  76 761 480 862
Annual appropriation  76 761 480 862
Statutory appropriation – –
Conditional grants – –
Departmental revenue and NRF receipts 18 186 154 63 981
Aid assistance 4 – –
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) FOR THE YEAR 262 915 544 843

291ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
ASSETS
Current assets 412 964 382 790
Cash and cash equivalents 11  106 358 138 141
Other financial assets 12  9 538 14 978
Prepayments and advances 13  3 122 3 022
Receivables 14 293 946 226 649
Loans 16  – –
Aid assistance prepayments 4  – –
Aid assistance receivable 4  – –
Non–current assets 275 576 288 502
Investments 15  – –
Prepayments and advances 13  – –
Receivables 14 220 519 244 280
Loans 16  – –
Other financial assets 12 55 057 44 222
Total ASSETS 688 540 671 292
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
for the year ended 31 March 2023

292
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities 973 300  957 305
Voted funds to be surrendered to the Revenue Fund 17 76 761  480 862
Departmental revenue and NRF receipts to be surrendered to the Revenue Fund 18 98 892  47 785
Bank overdraft 19  420 011  162 744
Payables 20 377 636  265 914
Aid assistance repayable 4  – –
Aid assistance unutilised 4  – –
Non–current liabilities 530 788 530 140
Payables 21 530 788 530 140
Total LIABILITIES 1 504 088 1 487 445
NET ASSETS (815 548) (816 153)
Represented by:
Capitalisation reserve  – –
Recoverable revenue  2 621 2 016
Retained funds  – –
Revaluation reserves  – –
Unauthorised expenditure (818 169) (818 169)
Total (815 548) (816 153)

293ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Capitalisation reserves
Opening balance – –
Transfers – –
Movement in equity – –
Movement in operational funds – –
Other movements – –
Closing balance – –
Recoverable revenue
Opening balance  3 679 1 663
Transfers:  (1 058) 2 016
Irrecoverable amounts written off 8.3 –
Debts revised –
Debts recovered (included in departmental revenue) (1 058) 2 016
Debts raised –
Closing balance  2 621 3 679
Retained funds
Opening balance – –
Transfer from voted funds to be surrendered (Parliament/Legislatures ONLY) – –
Utilised during the year – –
Other transfers – –
Closing balance – –

294
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Revaluation reserve
Opening balance (1 663) (56 621)
Revaluation adjustment (Human Settlements departments) –
Transfers –
Other  1 663 54 958
Closing balance  – (1 663)
Unauthorised expenditure
Opening balance (818 169) (818 169)
Unauthorised expenditure – current year – –
Relating to overspending of the vote or main division within the vote – –
Incurred not in accordance with the purpose of the vote or main division – –
Less: Amounts approved by Parliament/Legislature with funding – –
Less: Amounts approved by Parliament/Legislature without funding and derecognised – –
Current – –
Capital – –
Transfers and subsidies – –
Less: Amounts recoverable – –
Less: Amounts written off – –
Closing balance (818 169) (818 169)
Total (815 548) (816 153)

295ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Receipts  6 968 941 6 576 596
Annual appropriation funds received 1.1  6 784 318 6 517 872
Statutory appropriation funds received 2  – –
Departmental revenue received 3 181 683 57 950
Interest received 3.3  2 940 774
NRF receipts  – –
Aid assistance received 4  – –
Net (increase)/decrease in net working capital 44 325 (174 664)
Surrendered to Revenue Fund  (615 909) (262 847)
Surrendered to RDP Fund/Donor  – –
Current payments (5 467 199) (4 996 921)
Interest paid 7  (140 773) (125 006)
Payments for financial assets  (20 800) (108 610)
Transfers and subsidies paid  (793 056) (719 764)
Net cash flow available from operating activities 22 (24 471) 188 784
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023

296
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Distribution/dividend received  – –
Payments for capital assets 10  (285 729) (86 709)
Proceeds from sale of capital assets 3.4  1 531 5 257
(Increase)/decrease in loans  – –
(Increase)/decrease in investments  – –
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets (5 395) 30 428
(Increase)/decrease in non–current receivables 14  23 761 (113 493)
Net cash flow available from investing activities (265 832) (164 517)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Increase/(decrease) in net assets  605 56 974
Increase/(decrease) in non–current payables  648 (485)
Net cash flows from financing activities  1 253 56 489
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (289 050) 80 756
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (24 603) (105 359)
Unrealised gains and losses within cash and cash equivalents – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 23 (313 653) (24 603)

297ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Summary of significant accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the following
policies, which have been applied consistently in all material aspects, unless
otherwise indicated. Management has concluded that the financial statements
present fairly the department’s primary and secondary information.
The historical cost convention has been used, except where otherwise indicated.
Management has used assessments and estimates in preparing the annual
financial statements. These are based on the best information available at the time
of preparation.
Where appropriate and meaningful, additional information has been disclosed
to enhance the usefulness of the financial statements and to comply with the
statutory requirements of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Act 1 of
1999 (as amended by Act 29 of 1999), and the Treasury Regulations issued in terms
of the PFMA and the annual Division of Revenue Act.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Modified
Cash Standard.
2. GOING CONCERN
The financial statements have been on a going concern basis.
3. PRESENTATION CURRENCY
Amounts have been presented in the currency of the South African Rand (R), which
is also the functional currency of the department
4. ROUNDING
Unless otherwise stated, financial figures have been rounded to the nearest one
thousand Rand (R’000).
5. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Cash flows arising from foreign currency transactions are translated into South
African Rand using the spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of payment/
receipt.
6. COMPARATIVE INFORMATION
6.1. Prior period comparative information
Prior period comparative information has been presented in the current year’s
financial statements. Where necessary, figures included in the prior period
financial statements have been reclassified to ensure that the format in which the
information is presented is consistent with the format of the current year’s financial
statements.

298
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
6.2. Current year comparison with budget
A comparison between the approved, final budget and actual amounts for each
programme and economic classification is included in the appropriation statement.
7. REVENUE
7 .1. Appropriated funds
Appropriated funds comprise departmental allocations as well as direct charges
against the revenue fund (i.e. statutory appropriation).
Appropriated funds are recognised in the statement of financial performance
on the date the appropriation becomes effective. Adjustments made in terms
of the adjustments budget process are recognised in the statement of financial
performance on the date the adjustments become effective.
Appropriated funds are measured at the amounts receivable.
The net amount of any appropriated funds due to/from the relevant revenue fund
at the reporting date is recognised as a payable/receivable in the statement of
financial position.
7 .2. Departmental revenue
Departmental revenue is recognised in the statement of financial performance
when received and is subsequently paid into the relevant revenue fund, unless
stated otherwise.
Departmental revenue is measured at the cash amount received.
In–kind donations received are recorded in the notes to the financial statements
on the date of receipt and are measured at fair value.
Any amount owing to the relevant revenue fund at the reporting date is recognised
as a payable in the statement of financial position.
7 .3. Accrued departmental revenue
 » Accruals in respect of departmental revenue (excluding tax revenue) are
recorded in the notes to the financial statements when:
 » it is probable that the economic benefits or service potential associated with
the transaction will flow to the department; and
 » the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The accrued revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable.
Accrued tax revenue (and related interest and/penalties) is measured at amounts
receivable from collecting agents.
Write–offs are made according to the department’s debt write–off policy.

299ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
8. EXPENDITURE
8.1. Compensation of employees
8.1.1. Salaries and wages
Salaries and wages are recognised in the statement of financial performance on
the date of payment.
8.1.2. Social contributions
Social contributions made by the department in respect of current employees are
recognised in the statement of financial performance on the date of payment.
Social contributions made by the department in respect of ex–employees are
classified as transfers to households in the statement of financial performance on
the date of payment.
8.2. Other expenditure
Other expenditure (such as goods and services, transfers and subsidies and
payments for capital assets) is recognised in the statement of financial performance
on the date of payment. The expense is classified as a capital expense if the Total
consideration paid is more than the capitalisation threshold.
Donations made in kind are recorded in the notes to the financial statements on
the date of transfer and are measured at cost or fair value.
8.3. Accruals and payables not recognised
Accruals and payables not recognised are recorded in the notes to the financial
statements at cost or fair value at the reporting date.
8.4. Leases
8.4.1. Operating leases
Operating lease payments made during the reporting period are recognised as
current expenditure in the statement of financial performance on the date of
payment. Operating lease payments received are recognised as departmental
revenue.
The operating lease commitments are recorded in the notes to the financial
statements.
8.4.2.  Finance leases
Finance lease payments made during the reporting period are recognised as capital
expenditure in the statement of financial performance on the date of payment.
Finance lease payments received are recognised as departmental revenue.
The finance lease commitments are recorded in the notes to the financial
statements and are not apportioned between the capital and interest portions.
Finance lease assets acquired at the end of the lease term are recorded and
measured at the lower of:
 » cost, being the fair value of the asset; or
 » the sum of the minimum lease payments made, including any payments
made to acquire ownership at the end of the lease term, excluding interest.

300
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
9. AID ASSISTANCE
9.1. Aid assistance received
Aid assistance received in cash is recognised in the statement of financial
performance when received. In–kind aid assistance is recorded in the notes to the
financial statements on the date of receipt and is measured at fair value.
CARA Funds are recognised when receivable and measured at the amounts
receivable.
Aid assistance not spent for the intended purpose and any unutilised funds from
aid assistance that are required to be refunded to the donor are recognised as a
payable in the statement of financial position.
9.2. Aid assistance paid
Aid assistance paid is recognised in the statement of financial performance on the
date of payment. Aid assistance payments made prior to the receipt of funds are
recognised as a receivable in the statement of financial position.
10. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost in the statement of financial position.
Bank overdrafts are shown separately on the face of the statement of financial
position as a current liability.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise
cash on hand, deposits held, other short–term highly liquid investments and bank
overdrafts.
11. PREPA YMENTS AND ADVANCES
Prepayments and advances are recognised in the statement of financial position
when the department receives or disburses the cash.
Prepayments and advances are initially and subsequently measured at cost.
12. RECEIVABLES
Receivables are recognised in the statement of financial position at cost plus
accrued interest, where interest is charged, less amounts already settled or written–
off. Write–offs are made according to the department’s write–off policy.
13. FINANCIAL ASSETS
13.1. Financial assets (not covered elsewhere)
A financial asset is recognised initially at its cost–plus transaction costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset.
At the reporting date, a department shall measure its financial assets at cost, less
amounts already settled or written–off, except for recognised loans and receivables,
which are measured at cost plus accrued interest, where interest is charged, less
amounts already settled or written–off.

301ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
13.2. Impairment of financial assets
Where there is an indication of impairment of a financial asset, an estimation of
the reduction in the recorded carrying value, to reflect the best estimate of the
amount of the future economic benefits expected to be received from that asset, is
recorded in the notes to the financial statements.
14. PA Y ABLES
Payables recognised in the statement of financial position are recognised at cost.
15. CAPITAL ASSETS
15.1. Immovable capital assets
Immovable assets reflected in the asset register of the department are recorded in
the notes to the financial statements at cost or fair value where the cost cannot be
determined reliably. Immovable assets acquired in a non–exchange transaction are
recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. Immovable assets are subsequently
carried in the asset register at cost and are not currently subject to depreciation
or impairment.
Subsequent expenditure of a capital nature forms part of the cost of the existing
asset when ready for use.
Additional information on immovable assets not reflected in the assets register is
provided in the notes to financial statements.
15.2. Movable capital assets
Movable capital assets are initially recorded in the notes to the financial statements
at cost. Movable capital assets acquired through a non–exchange transaction is
measured at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Where the cost of movable capital assets cannot be determined reliably, the
movable capital assets are measured at fair value and where fair value cannot be
determined; the movable assets are measured at R1.
All assets acquired prior to 1 April 2002 (or a later date as approved by the OAG)
may be recorded at R1.
Movable capital assets are subsequently carried at cost and are not subject to
depreciation or impairment.
Biological assets are subsequently carried at fair value . Subsequent expenditure
that is of a capital nature forms part of the cost of the existing asset when ready
for use.
15.3. Intangible capital assets
Intangible assets are initially recorded in the notes to the financial statements at
cost. Intangible assets acquired through a non–exchange transaction are measured
at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Internally generated intangible assets are recorded in the notes to the financial
statements when the department commences the development phase of the
project.

302
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Where the cost of intangible assets cannot be determined reliably, the intangible
capital assets are measured at fair value and where fair value cannot be determined;
the intangible assets are measured at R1.
All assets acquired prior to 1 April 2002 (or a later date as approved by the OAG)
may be recorded at R1.
Intangible assets are subsequently carried at cost and are not subject to
depreciation or impairment.
Subsequent expenditure of a capital nature forms part of the cost of the existing
asset when ready for use.
15.4. Project costs: Work–in–progress
Expenditure of a capital nature is initially recognised in the statement of financial
performance at cost when paid.
Amounts paid towards capital projects are separated from the amounts recognised
and accumulated in work–in–progress until the underlying asset is ready for use.
Once ready for use, the Total accumulated payments are recorded in an asset
register. Subsequent payments to complete the project are added to the capital
asset in the asset register.
Where the department is not the custodian of the completed project asset, the
asset is transferred to the custodian subsequent to completion.
16. PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENTS
16.1. Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are recorded in the notes to the financial statements when
there is a possible obligation that arises from past events, and whose existence will
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non–occurrence of one or more uncertain
future events not within the control of the department or when there is a present
obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of
resources will be required to settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation
cannot be measured reliably.
16.2. Contingent assets
Contingent assets are recorded in the notes to the financial statements when a
possible asset arises from past events, and whose existence will be confirmed by
the occurrence or non–occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not
within the control of the department.
16.3. Capital commitments
Capital commitments are recorded at cost in the notes to the financial statements.

303ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
17 . UNAUTHORISED EXPENDITURE
Unauthorised expenditure is measured at the amount of the confirmed
unauthorised expenditure.
Unauthorised expenditure is recognised in the statement of changes in net assets
until such time as the expenditure is either:
 » approved by Parliament or the Provincial Legislature with funding and the
related funds are received; or
 » approved by Parliament or the Provincial Legislature without funding
and is written off against the appropriation in the statement of financial
performance; or
 » transferred to receivables for recovery.
Unauthorised expenditure recorded in the notes to the financial statements
comprise of
 » unauthorised expenditure that was under assessment in the previous
financial year;
 » unauthorised expenditure relating to previous financial year and identified
in the current year; and
 » Unauthorised incurred in the current year.
18. FRUITLESS AND WASTEFUL EXPENDITURE
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure receivables are recognised in the statement of
financial position when recoverable. The receivable is measured at the amount that
is expected to be recovered and is de–recognised when settled or subsequently
written–off as irrecoverable.
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is recorded in the notes to the financial
statements when and at amounts confirmed, and comprises:
 » fruitless and wasteful expenditure that was under assessment in the previous
financial year;
 » fruitless and wasteful expenditure relating to previous financial year and
identified in the current year; and
 » fruitless and wasteful expenditure incurred in the current year.
19. IRREGULAR EXPENDITURE
Losses emanating from irregular expenditure are recognised as a receivable in the
statement of financial position when recoverable. The receivable is measured at
the amount that is expected to be recovered and is de–recognised when settled or
subsequently written–off as irrecoverable.
Irregular expenditure is recorded in the notes to the financial statements when
and at amounts confirmed and comprises of:
 » irregular expenditure that was under assessment in the previous financial
year;
 » irregular expenditure relating to previous financial year and identified in the
current year; and
 » irregular expenditure incurred in the current year.
20. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ERRORS
Changes in accounting estimates are applied prospectively in accordance with MCS
requirements.

304
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Correction of errors is applied retrospectively in the period in which the error
has occurred in accordance with MCS requirements, except to the extent that it
is impracticable to determine the period–specific effects or the cumulative effect
of the error. In such cases the department shall restate the opening balances
of assets, liabilities and net assets for the earliest period for which retrospective
restatement is practicable.
21. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE
Events after the reporting date that are classified as adjusting events have been
accounted for in the financial statements. The events after the reporting date that
are classified as non–adjusting events after the reporting date have been disclosed
in the notes to the financial statements.
22. PRINCIPAL–AGENT ARRANGEMENTS
The department is party to a principal–agent arrangement for Department of
Home Affairs. In terms of the arrangement the department is the agent and is
responsible for collection. All related revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities
have been recognised or recorded in terms of the relevant policies listed herein.
Additional disclosures have been provided in the notes to the financial statements
where appropriate.
23. RECOVERABLE REVENUE
Amounts are recognised as recoverable revenue when a payment made in a
previous financial year becomes recoverable from a debtor in the current financial
year. Amounts are either transferred to the National/Provincial Revenue Fund
when recovered or are transferred to the statement of financial performance when
written–off.
24. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Related party transactions within the Minister/MECs portfolio are recorded in the
notes to the financial statements when the transaction is not at arm’s length.
The number of individuals and the full compensation of key management personnel
is recorded in the notes to the financial statements.
25. PUBLIC–PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
Public Private Partnerships are accounted for based on the nature and or the
substance of the partnership. The transaction is accounted for in accordance with
the relevant accounting policies.
A summary of the significant terms of the PPP agreement, the parties to the
agreement, and the date of commencement thereof together with the description
and nature of the concession fees received, the unitary fees paid, rights and
obligations of the department are recorded in the notes to the financial statements.
26. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The value of each major class of employee benefit obligation (accruals, payables
not recognised and provisions) is recorded in the Employee benefits note.
Accruals and payables not recognised for employee benefits are measured at cost
or fair value at the reporting date.
The provision for employee benefits is measured as the best estimate of the funds
required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date.

305ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
1. ANNUAL APPROPRIATION
1.1. Annual Appropriation
Included are funds appropriated in terms of the Appropriation Act (and the Adjustments Appropriation Act) for National Departments (Voted funds) and Provincial
Departments:
2022/23 2021/22
Final Budget
Actual Funds
Received
Funds not
requested/not
received Final Budget
Appropriation
Received
Funds not
requested/not
received
Programmes R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Administration  1 688 171  1 688 171  – 1 626 687 1 626 687 –
International Relations  3 386 270  3 386 270  –  3 354 652  3 354 652 –
International Cooperation  559 631  559 631  –  493 594  493 594 –
Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services  336 822  336 822  –  293 839  293 839 –
International Transfers  813 424  813 424  –  749 100  749 100 –
Total  6 784 318  6 784 318  – 6 517 872 6 517 872 –
1.2. Conditional grants
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Total grants received 45 – –
Provincial grants included in Total grants received – –

306
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
2. STATUTORY APPROPRIATION
– –
– –
3. DEPARTMENTAL REVENUE
Tax revenue  – –
Sales of goods and services other than capital assets 3.1  1 137 1 672
Fines, penalties and forfeits 3.2 34 –
Interest, dividends and rent on land 3.3  2 940 774
Sales of capital assets 3.4  1 531 5 257
Transactions in financial assets and liabilities 3.5  180 512 56 278
Transfer received 3.6  – –
Total revenue collected 186 154 63 981
Less: Own revenue included in appropriation 18 – –
Total 186 154 63 981
3.1. Sales of goods and services other than capital assets
Sales of goods and services produced by the department  1 083 1 672
Sales by market establishment  635 1 220
Administrative fees  – –
Other sales  448 452
Sales of scrap, waste and other used current goods  54 –
Total 3  1 137 1 672

307ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
3.2. Fines, penalties and forfeits
Fines – –
Penalties 34 –
Forfeits – –
Total 3 34 –
3.3. Interest, dividends and rent on land
Interest  2 940 774
Dividends  – –
Rent on land  – –
Total 3  2 940 774
The increase is due to interest accumulated in a new bank account that was opened in South Africa in the current financial year for civic and immigration services revenue
transferred by missions.

308
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
3.4. Sales of capital assets
Tangible capital assets  1 531 5 257
Buildings and other fixed structures  – –
Machinery and equipment  1 531 5 257
Heritage assets  – –
Specialised military assets  – –
Land and subsoil assets  – –
Biological assets  – –
Intangible capital assets  – –
Software  – –
Mastheads and publishing titles  – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names and trademarks  – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models  – –
Services and operating rights  – –
Total 3 1 531 5 257
3.5. Transactions in financial assets and liabilities
Loans and advances  – –
Receivables  – –
Forex gain 85 668 –
Other receipts including Recoverable Revenue  94 844 56 278
Gains on GFECRA  –  –
Total 3 180 512 56 278
Increase is due to forex gain and revenue received from deceased estate as inheritance from the late Swiss citizen and last year the department reported forex loss hence there is no
comparative amount for forex gain

309ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
3.6. Transfers received
Other governmental units – –
Higher education institutions – –
Foreign governments – –
International organisations – –
Public corporations and private enterprises – –
Households and non–profit institutions – –
Total 3 – –
3.6.1. Donations received in–kind (not included in the main note or sub note)
List in–kind donations received – –
– –
– –
Total – –

310
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
3.7 . Cash received not recognised (not included in the main note)
2022/23
Amount received
Amount paid
to the revenue
fund Balance
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000
Revenue collected on behalf of DHA for civic and immigration  195 730  150 575 45 155
Total  195 730  150 575 45 155
2021/22
Amount received
Amount paid
to the revenue
fund Balance
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000
Revenue collected on behalf of DHA for civic and immigration 371 938 320 333 51 605
Total 371 938 320 333 51 605

311ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
4. AID ASSISTANCE
Opening balance – –
Prior period error – –
As restated – –
Transferred from statement of financial performance – –
Transfers to or from retained funds – –
Paid during the year – –
Closing balance – –
4.1. Analysis of balance by source
Aid assistance from RDP – –
Aid assistance from other sources – –
CARA Funds – –
Closing balance 4 – –
4.2. Analysis of balance
Aid assistance receivable – –
Aid assistance prepayments (not expensed) – –
Aid assistance unutilised – –
Aid assistance repayable – –
Closing balance 4 – –
Aid assistance not requested/not received – –

312
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
4.2.1. Aid assistance prepayments (expensed)
2022/23
Amount as at 1
April 2022
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year prepay–
ments
Amount as at 31
March 2023
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services – – – – –
Interest and rent on land – – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – – –
Capital assets – – – – –
Other – – – – –
Total – – – – –
2021/22
Amount as at 1
April 2021
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year prepay–
ments
Amount as at 31
March 2022
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services – – – – –
Interest and rent on land – – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – – –
Capital assets – – – – –
Other – – – – –
Total – – – – –

313ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
4.3. Prior period error
Nature of prior period error – –
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] – –
– –
– –
Relating to 2021/22
– –
– –
Total prior period errors – –
4.4. Aid assistance expenditure per economic classification
Current – –
Capital 10 – –
Transfers and subsidies – –
Total aid assistance expenditure – –

314
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
4.5. Donations received in kind (not included in the main note)
List in–kind donations received
Tsogo Sun – 120
BMW – 150
Sponsorship from MTN 250 600
Sponsorship from Vodacom 500 400
Old Mutual  300 –
Aspen  175 –
Foreign Missions 2 472 –
Total 3 697 1 270
The department received more sponsorship in 2022/23 due to increase activities as compared to 2021/22.

315ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
5. COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES
5.1. Analysis of balance
Basic salary  1 576 293  1 562 468
Performance award  –  853
Service based  1 700  1 915
Compensative/circumstantial  44 570  34 740
Periodic payments  –  –
Other non–pensionable allowances  1 129 938  1 047 946
Total 2 752 501  2 647 922
No performance award payments were made in the 2022/23 financial year and hence no comparative figures as per the Department of Public Service and Administration directive.

316
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
5.2. Social contributions
Employer contributions
Pension  192 160  195 364
Medical  112 457  108 341
UIF  –  –
Bargaining council  307  218
Official unions and associations  –  –
Insurance  40  37
Total  304 964  303 960
Total compensation of employees 3 057 465 2 951 882
Average number of employees 3 238 3 374
Officials appointed ito Public Service Act (1 954 – 2022/23) (2 015 – 2021/22), Officials not appointed ito Public Service Act – Locally recruited (1 284 – 2022/23) (1 359 – 2021/22)

317ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
6. GOODS AND SERVICES
Administrative fees  10 695  6 402
Advertising  3 627  1 728
Minor assets 6.1  4 109  3 266
Bursaries (employees)  864  715
Catering  8 429  1 886
Communication  41 538  42 262
Computer services 6.2  195 062  170 554
Consultants: Business and advisory services 6.9  2 733  1 601
Infrastructure and planning services  –  –
Laboratory services  791  509
Scientific and technological services  –  –
Legal services  9 063  3 897
Contractors  37 122  29 638
Agency and support/outsourced services  2 936  3 794
Entertainment  8 749  3 603
Audit cost – external 6.3  20 665  21 780
Fleet services  14 564  18 110
Inventories 6.4  –  –
Consumables 6.5  54 209  36 367
Housing  –  –
Operating leases 989 117  941 098
Property payments 6.6  460 819  415 923

318
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Rental and hiring  651  649
Transport provided as part of the departmental activities  –  –
Travel and subsistence 6.7 317 630  124 276
Venues and facilities  22 964  8 046
Training and development  3 421  1 019
Other operating expenditure 6.8  199 976  207 916
Total 2 409 734  2 045 039
Increase on expenditure in the current year is due to normal operations resuming after lockdown, iro venues and facilities, catering, entertainment and travel and subsistence.
Operating leases relate to rental payments made in mission abroad for office space and accommodation for officials transferred abroad which is paid in foreign currency and the
increase in expenditure is because of foreign exchange fluctuation experienced in 2022/23 financial year.

319ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
6.1. Minor assets
Tangible capital assets 4 109 3 266
Buildings and other fixed structures – –
Machinery and equipment 4 109 3 266
Heritage assets – –
Specialised military assets – –
Land and subsoil assets – –
Biological assets – –
Intangible capital assets – –
Software – –
Mastheads and publishing titles – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names and trademarks – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models – –
Services and operating rights – –
Total 6 4 109 3 266
6.2. Computer services
SITA computer services  1 479  1 239
External computer service providers  193 583  169 315
Total 6  195 062  170 554
The increase is because of the disputed network services invoice relating to 2021/22 financial year which was resolved and paid in 2022/23.

320
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
6.3. Audit cost – external
Regularity audits  20 665 21 780
Performance audits  – –
Investigations  – –
Environmental audits  – –
Computer audits  – –
Total 6  20 665 21 780
6.4. Inventories
Clothing material and accessories – –
Farming supplies – –
Food and food supplies – –
Fuel, oil and gas – –
Learning, teaching and support material – –
Materials and supplies – –
Medical supplies – –
Medicine – –
Medsas inventory interface – –
Other supplies 6.4.1 – –
Total 6 – –

321ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
6.4.1. Other supplies
Ammunition and security supplies – –
Assets for distribution – –
Machinery and equipment – –
School furniture – –
Sports and recreation – –
Library material – –
Other assets for distribution – –
Other – –
Total 6.4 – –
6.5. Consumables
Consumable supplies  40 105  22 859
Uniform and clothing  4 522  5 625
Household supplies 6 638  4 936
Building material and supplies  –  –
Communication accessories  –  –
IT consumables 10 336  1 208
Other consumables  18 609  11 090
Stationery, printing and office supplies  14 104  13 508
Total 6 54 209  36 367

322
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
6.6. Property payments
Municipal services  201 393  188 905
Property management fees  1 299  1 150
Property maintenance and repairs  258 127  225 868
Other  –  –
Total 6  460 819  415 923
6.7 . Travel and subsistence
Local  48 334  16 663
Foreign 269 296  107 613
Total 6 317 630  124 276
6.8. Other operating expenditure
Professional bodies, membership, and subscription fees  2 653  1 907
Resettlement costs  11 059  9 757
Other  186 264  196 252
Total 6  199 976  207 916
6.9. Remuneration of members of a commission or committee of inquiry (Included in Consultants: Business and advisory services)
Name of Commission/Committee of Inquiry No. of members 6
Audit Committee  5  1 606  1 291
Risk Management  1  148  108
Total 1 754 1 399

323ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
7. INTEREST AND RENT ON LAND
Interest paid  140 773  125 006
Rent on land  –  –
Total 140 773  125 006
8. PA YMENTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS
Material losses through criminal conduct  –  –
Theft 8.4  –  –
Other material losses 8.1  –  –
Purchase of equity  –  –
Extension of loans for policy purposes  –  –
Other material losses written off 8.2 –  21 851
Debts written off 8.3  19 780  27 014
Forex losses 8.5  1 020  59 745
Debt takes overs  –  –
Losses on GFECRA  –  –
Total 20 800  108 610
The reduction in expenditure is because the department realised a gain as compared to forex losses realised in 2021/22. In addition, the department did not write off
transactions resulting from suspense accounts.

324
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
8.1. Other material losses
Nature of other material losses
Group major categories, but list material items – –
Total 8 – –
8.2. Other material losses written off
Nature of losses
Group major categories, but list material items
Disallowances – 21 851
Total 8 – 21 851
No transactions were identified for write off in this account.

325ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
8.3. Debts written off
Nature of debts written off
Group major categories, but list material items
Irregular expenditure written off – –
– –
– –
Total – –
Recoverable revenue written off
– –
– –
– –
Total – –
Staff Debt  441 30
Rental Deposit  18 600 26 984
Other debt written off  739 –
Total 19 780 27 014
Total debt written off 8 19 780 27 014
The department identified less transactions in 2022/23 financial year for write off.

326
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
8.4. Details of theft
Nature of theft
Group major categories, but list material items
– –
– –
– –
Total 8 – –
8.5. Forex losses
Nature of losses
Group major categories, but list material items
Forex losses – Missions  – 59 745
Forex Losses–Foreign Payments  919 –
Forex Losses–Rental  101 –
Total 8 1 020 59 745

327ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
9. TRANSFERS AND SUBSIDIES
Provinces and municipalities 46,47 –  –
Departmental agencies and accounts Annex 1B 49 699  48 546
Higher education institutions Annex 1C –  –
Foreign governments and international organisations Annex 1E 724 172  629 288
Public corporations and private enterprises Annex 1D  –  –
Non–profit institutions Annex 1F –  –
Households Annex 1G 19 185  41 930
Total  793 056  719 764
Household expenditure in the current year is mainly for the staff that has resigned whereas in 2021/22 DIRCO close 10 missions and paid termination benefits for those missions
resulting in the increased spending in the previous year
9.1. Donations made in kind (not included in the main note)
List in–kind donations made Annex 1J – –
Foreign Missions 466 –
– –
Total 466 –

328
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
10. EXPENDITURE FOR CAPITAL ASSETS
Tangible capital assets  194 178  86 520
Buildings and other fixed structures 39  32 076  31 097
Machinery and equipment 37  162 102  55 423
Heritage assets 37,39 – –
Specialised military assets 37  –  –
Land and subsoil assets 39  –  –
Biological assets 37  –  –
Intangible capital assets  91 551  189
Software 38  91 551  189
Mastheads and publishing titles 38  –  –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names and trademarks 38  –  –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models 38  –  –
Services and operating rights 38  –  –
Total 285 729 86 709
The following amounts have been included as project costs in Expenditure for capital assets
Compensation of employees – –
Goods and services – –
Total – –

329ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
10.1. Analysis of funds utilised to acquire capital assets – Current year
2022/23
Voted funds Aid assistance Total
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000
Tangible capital assets  194 178  –  194 178
Buildings and other fixed structures  32 076  –  32 076
Machinery and equipment 162 102  –  162 102
Heritage assets – – –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –
Biological assets  –  –  –
Intangible capital assets  91 551  –  91 551
Software  91 551  –  91 551
Mastheads and publishing titles  –  –  –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names and trademarks  –  –  –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models  –  –  –
Services and operating rights  –  –  –
Total 285 729  – 285 729

330
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
10.2. Analysis of funds utilised to acquire capital assets – Prior year
2021/22
Voted funds Aid assistance Total
Name of entity R’000 R’000 R’000
Tangible capital assets 86 520 – 86 520
Buildings and other fixed structures  31 097 –  31 097
Machinery and equipment  55 423 –  55 423
Heritage assets – – –
Specialised military assets – – –
Land and subsoil assets – – –
Biological assets – – –
Intangible capital assets 189 – 189
Software 189 – 189
Mastheads and publishing titles – – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names and trademarks – – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models – – –
Services and operating rights – – –
Total 86 709 – 86 709

331ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
10.3. Finance lease expenditure included in Expenditure for capital assets
Tangible capital assets
Buildings and other fixed structures  27 946 27 947
Machinery and equipment  – –
Heritage assets  – –
Specialised military assets  – –
Land and subsoil assets  – –
Biological assets  – –
Total 27 946 27 947
11. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Consolidated Paymaster General Account  –  –
Cash receipts  –  –
Disbursements  –  –
Cash on hand  546  372
Investments (Domestic)  3 705  13 554
Investments (Foreign)  102 107  124 215
Total 106 358  138 141
Reconciliation for cash with commercial banks (Investment foreign) R’000
Trial Balance: Investment foreign  29 293
Adjustment on Cash with Commercial Bank: Foreign  (1 089)
Recalculated Trial Balance  28 204
Revaluated Cash book balance  102 107
Forex gain  73 903

332
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
12. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Current
Local – –
Group major categories, but list material items – –
– –
Total – –
Foreign
Rental deposits 9 538 14 978
Total 9 538 14 978
Total Current other financial assets 9 538 14 978
Non-current
Local – –
Group major categories, but list material items
Total – –
Foreign
Rental deposits 55 057 44 222
Total 55 057 44 222
Total Non–current other financial assets 55 057 44 222

333ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
13. PREPA YMENTS AND ADVANCES
Staff advances  – –
Travel and subsistence  3 122 3 022
Prepayments (Not expensed) 13.2  – –
Advances paid (Not expensed) 13.1  – –
SOCPEN advances  – –
Total  3 122 3 022
Analysis of Total Prepayments and advances
Current Prepayments and advances 3 122 3 022
Non–current Prepayments and advances –
Total 3 122 3 022

334
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
13.1. Advances paid (Not expensed)
2022/23
Amount as at
1 April 2022
Less: Amounts
expensed in
current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2023
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
National departments – – – – –
Provincial departments – – – – –
Public entities – – – – –
Other entities – – – – –
Total 13 – – – – –
2021/22
Amount as at
1 April 2021
Less: Amounts
expensed in
current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2022
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
National departments – – – – –
Provincial departments – – – – –
Public entities – – – – –
Other entities – – – – –
Total 13 – – – – –

335ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
13.2. Prepayments (Not expensed)
2022/23
Amount as at
1 April 2022
Less: Amounts
expensed in
current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2023
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services – – – – –
Interest and rent on land – – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – – –
Capital assets – – – – –
Other – – – – –
Total 13 – – – – –
2021/22
Amount as at
1 April 2021
Less: Amounts
expensed in
current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2022
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services – – – – –
Interest and rent on land – – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – – –
Capital assets – – – – –
Other – – – – –
Total 13 – – – – –

336
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
13.3. Prepayments (Expensed)
2022/23
Amount as at
1 April 2022
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year
prepayments
Amount as at
31 March 2023
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services  72 627  (72 627) –  70 376 70 376
Interest and rent on land  – – – –  –
Transfers and subsidies  – – – –  –
Capital assets  1 129  (1 129) – 41 881  41 881
Other  – – – –  –
Total  73 756  (73 756) – 112 257  112 257
2021/22
Amount as at 1
April 2021
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year
prepayments
Amount as at 31
March 2022
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services  70 280  (70 280)  –  72 627  72 627
Interest and rent on land  –  –  –  –  –
Transfers and subsidies  –  –  –  –  –
Capital assets  143  (143)  –  1 129  1 129
Other  –  –  –  –  –
Total  70 423  (70 423)  –  73 756  73 756

337ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
13.4. Advances paid (Expensed)
2022/23
Amount as at
1 April 2022
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2023
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
National departments – – – – –
Provincial departments – – – – –
Public entities – – – – –
Other entities – – – – –
Total – – – – –
2021/22
Amount as at
1 April 2021
Less: Received in
the current year Add/Less: Other
Add Current
year advances
Amount as at
31 March 2022
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
National departments – – – – –
Provincial departments – – – – –
Public entities – – – – –
Other entities – – – – –
Total – – – – –

338
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
14. RECEIVABLES
2022/23 2021/22
Current Non–current Total Current Non–current Total
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Claims recoverable 14.1  254 612  186 815  441 427  189 693  217 288 406 981
Trade receivables 14.2 – – – – – –
Recoverable expenditure 14.3 – – – – – –
Staff debt 14.4  38 692  28 368  67 060  36 292  21 196  57 488
Other receivables 14.5  642  5 336  5 978  664  5 796  6 460
Total  293 946  220 519  514 465  226 649  244 280  470 929
14.1. Claims recoverable
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
National departments  275 188  306 541
Provincial departments  8 814 45 243
Foreign governments – –
Public entities  157 425  55 197
Private enterprises – –
Higher education institutions – –
Households and non–profit institutions – –
Local governments – –
Total 14 441 427 406 981

339ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
14.2. Trade receivables
Group major categories, but list material items – –
– –
Total 14 – –
14.3. Recoverable expenditure
Group major categories, but list material items – –
– –
Total 14 – –
14.4. Staff debt
Department debt  60 355  49 556
Foreign Staff debt  6 705  7 932
Total 14 67 060 57 488
The increase in the departmental debt is the as result of the increased COLA advances for the transferred officials.

340
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
14.5. Other receivables
Receipt foreign claims  4 688 4 688
African Renaissance  37 511
Salary Accounts  883 1 261
Disallowance  370 –
Unauthorised expenditure – –
Irregular expenditure – –
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure – –
Total 14 5 978 6 460
14.6. Impairment of receivables
Estimate of impairment of receivables 36 116 35 932
Total 36 116 35 932

341ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
15. INVESTMENTS
Non–current
Shares and other equity – –
List investments at cost – –
– –
Total -
Securities other than shares Annex 2A – –
List investments at cost – –
Total – –
Total non–current investments – –
Analysis of non–current investments
Opening balance – –
Additions in cash – –
Disposals for cash – –
Non–cash movements – –
Closing balance – –

342
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
15.1. Impairment of investments
Estimate of impairment of investments – –
– –
Total – –
16. LOANS
Public corporations – –
Higher education institutions – –
Foreign governments – –
Private enterprises – –
Non-profit institutions – –
Staff loans – –
Total – –

343ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
17 . VOTED FUNDS TO BE SURRENDERED TO THE REVENUE FUND
Opening balance 480 862 165 648
Prior period error 17.2 -
As restated  480 862 165 648
Transferred from statement of financial performance (as restated) 76 761 480 862
Add: Unauthorised expenditure for the current year - -
Voted funds not requested/not received 1.1 - -
Transferred to retained revenue to defray excess expenditure (Parliament/Legislatures) 17.1 - -
Conditional grants surrendered by the provincial department 17.3 - -
Paid during the year (480 862) (165 648)
Closing balance 76 761 480 862
17 .1. Voted funds/(Excess expenditure) transferred to retained funds (Parliament/Legislatures ONL Y)
Opening balance – –
Transfer from statement of financial performance – –
Transfer from Departmental Revenue to defray excess expenditure 18 – –
Total 17 - -

344
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2021/22
Note R’000
17 .2. Prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] –
Relating to 2021/22 –
Total prior period errors –
17 .3. Reconciliation on unspent conditional grants
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Total conditional grants received 1.2 – –
Total conditional grants spent – –
Unspent conditional grants to be surrendered – –
Less: Paid to the Provincial Revenue Fund by Provincial department – –
Approved for rollover – –
Not approved for rollover – –
Add: Received from provincial revenue fund by national department 17 – –
Due by the Provincial Revenue Fund – –

345ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
18. DEPARTMENTAL REVENUE AND NRF RECEIPTS TO BE SURRENDERED TO THE REVENUE FUND
Opening balance 47 785 81 003
Prior period error 18.1 –
As restated  47 785 81 003
Transferred from statement of financial performance (as restated) 186 154 63 981
Own revenue included in appropriation –
Transfer from aid assistance 4 –
Transferred to voted funds to defray excess expenditure (Parliament/Legislatures) 17.1 –
Paid during the year  (135 047) (97 199)
Closing balance 98 892 47 785
18.1. Prior period error
Nature of prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] –
–
–
Relating to 2021/22
–
–
Total prior period errors –

346
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
19. BANK OVERDRAFT
Consolidated Paymaster General account 420 011 162 744
Fund requisition account – –
Overdraft with commercial banks (Local) – –
Overdraft with commercial banks (Foreign) – –
Total 420 011 162 744
20. PA Y ABLES – CURRENT
Amounts owing to other entities  – –
Advances received 20.1 331 887  196 566
Clearing accounts 20.2  8  17
Other payables 20.3  45 741  69 331
Total  377 636  265 914
20.1. Advances received
National departments 90 865  44 247
Provincial departments 39 094  21 118
Public entities 201 928  131 201
Other institutions –  –
Total 20 331 887  196 566

347ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
20.2. Clearing accounts
Description
Salary Pension Account 8 17
–
–
Total 20 8 17
20.3. Other payables
Description
Foreign Affairs Detainee Funds  114 297
Salary: ACB Account  424 471
Dept Home Affairs Revenue owed to NRF  45 155 51 674
National Revenue Fund  – 16 883
Debt account credit balances  3 6
Foreign staff debt   45 –
 – –
Total 20 45 741 69 331

348
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
21. PA Y ABLES – NON–CURRENT
2022/23 2021/22
One to two years
Two to three
years
Older than three
years Total Total
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Amounts owing to other entities  522 279  522 279 521 862
Advances received 21.1 –
Other payables 21.2 277  8 232  8 509 8 278
Total – 277  530 511  530 788 530 140
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
21.1. Advances received
National departments – –
Provincial departments – –
Public entities – –
Other institutions – –
Total 21 – –
21.2. Other payables
Description
Payable Adv: For&Int Org Adv Acc 8 232 8 232
Salary Accounts 277 46
– –
Total 21 8 509 8 278

349ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
22. NET CASH FLOW AVAILABLE FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net surplus/(deficit) as per Statement of Financial Performance 262 915 544 843
Add back non–cash/cash movements not deemed operating activities (287 386) (356 059)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (67 297) (66 277)
(Increase)/decrease in prepayments and advances  (100) 726
(Increase)/decrease in other current assets
Increase/(decrease) in payables – current  111 722 (109 113)
Proceeds from sale of capital assets  (1 531) (5 257)
Proceeds from sale of investments  5 440 5 631
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets  (5 440) (5 631)
Expenditure on capital assets  285 729 86 709
Surrenders to Revenue Fund  (615 909) (262 847)
Surrenders to RDP Fund/Donors  – –
Voted funds not requested/not received  – –
Own revenue included in appropriation  – –
Other non–cash items  – –
Net cash flow generating  (24 471) 188 784

350
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
23. RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS FOR CASH FLOW PURPOSES
Consolidated Paymaster General account  (420 011) (162 744)
Fund requisition account  –  –
Cash receipts  –  –
Disbursements  –  –
Cash on hand  546  372
Cash with commercial banks (Local)  3 705  13 554
Cash with commercial banks (Foreign)  102 107  124 215
Total  (313 653)  (24 603)
24. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CONTINGENT ASSETS
24.1. Contingent liabilities
Liable to Nature
Motor vehicle guarantees Employees Annex 3A – –
Housing loan guarantees Employees Annex 3A 185  290
Other guarantees Annex 3A – –
Claims against the department Annex 3B  109 369  707 663
Intergovernmental payables Annex 5  –  610
Environmental rehabilitation liability Annex 3B – –
Other Annex 3B  61 490  81 232
Total 171 044  789 795

351ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
24.2. Contingent assets
Nature of contingent asset
Recovery of legal cost 4 303  1 875
Claims motor vehicles –  49
Loss of Cash Juba 380  380
Damage to rented property 234  234
Rental in Accra 6 475  6 475
Theft and losses 191  3 093
Advance paid for preparatory work  88 172 88 172
Recovery of debts 200 200
Foreign Missions– VAT Claimable    6 394 2 476
Leave (LRPs & Head Office) 154 45
Total 106 503 102 999
The prior year contingent asset relating to the leave benefits due was identified in the current financial year and adjustment of 45 was made in the prior year. VAT paid by the SA
Foreign Missions that is claimable from Foreign Ministries

352
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Buildings and other fixed structures 2 337 2 337
Heritage assets – –
Machinery and equipment 1 976 1 295
Specialised military assets – –
Land and subsoil assets – –
Biological assets – –
Intangible assets – –
Total 4 313 3 632

353ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
26. ACCRUALS AND PA Y ABLES NOT RECOGNISED
26.1. Accruals
2022/23 2021/22
30 Days 30+ Days Total Total
Listed by economic classification Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services  37 469  4 353  41 822 25 453
Interest and rent on land – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – –
Capital assets – – – –
Other – – – –
Total  37 469  4 353  41 822 25 453
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Listed by programme level
Administration  37 061  23 351
International Relations  1 175  1 066
International Cooperation  1 400  54
Public diplomacy  2 186  982
Total 41 822 25 453
The prior year error relates to the payment of construction of the Dar Es Salaam chancery that was not included in the 2021/22 accruals register

354
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
26.2. Payables not recognised
2022/23 2021/22
30 Days 30+ Days Total Total
Listed by economic classification Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Goods and services  12 470  931  13 401 12 417
Interest and rent on land – – – –
Transfers and subsidies – – – –
Capital assets – – – –
Other – – – –
Total  12 470  931  13 401 12 417
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Listed by programme level
Administration  2 379  11 882
International Relations  7 077  499
International Cooperation  890  19
Public diplomacy  3 055  17
Total 13 401 12 417
Included in the above Total s are the following:
Confirmed balances with other departments Annex 5 – –
Confirmed balances with other government entities Annex 5 – –
Total – –

355ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
27 . EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Leave entitlement 102 377  107 369
Service bonus  37 489  37 060
Performance awards – –
Capped leave  38 815  44 384
Other 1 812  1 945
Total 180 493  190 758

356
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
28. LEASE COMMITMENTS
28.1. Operating leases
2022/23
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year – 1 746  772 865  5 093  779 704
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years – 10 211  1 313 979  4 936  1 329 126
Later than 5 years –  43 818  57 893 –  101 711
Total lease commitments –  55 775  2 144 737  10 029 2 210 541
2021/22
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year  –  1 556  594 236  3 699  599 491
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years  –  7 099  838 946  4 105  850 150
Later than 5 years  –  46 374  52 722 –  99 096
Total lease commitments  –  55 029  1 485 904  7 804 1 548 737
The department is leasing offices and accommodation for its staff working in foreign embassies abroad and the properties are leased in line with the terms and condition applicable
to country of accreditation.
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Rental earned on sub–leased assets 3 – –
Total – –

357ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
28.2. Finance leases
2022/23
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year – – –  1 661  1 661
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years – – –  539  539
Later than 5 years – – –
Total lease commitments – – –  2 200  2 200
2021/22
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year – – –  802  802
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years – – –  253  253
Later than 5 years – – – – –
Total lease commitments – – –  1 055 1 055
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Rental earned on sub–leased assets 3 – –
Total – –

358
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
28.3. Operating lease future revenue
2022/23
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year – – – – –
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years – – – – –
Later than 5 years – – – – –
Total operating lease revenue receivable – – – – –
2021/22
Specialised
military
equipment Land
Buildings and
other fixed
structures
Machinery and
equipment Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Not later than 1 year – – – – –
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years – – – – –
Later than 5 years – – – – –
Total operating lease revenue receivable – – – – –

359ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
29. ACCRUED DEPARTMENTAL REVENUE
Tax revenue – –
Sales of goods and services other than capital assets – –
Fines, penalties and forfeits – –
Interest, dividends and rent on land – –
Sales of capital assets – –
Transactions in financial assets and liabilities – –
Transfers received – –
Other – –
Total – –
29.1. Analysis of accrued departmental revenue
Opening balance – –
Less: amounts received – –
Less: services received in lieu of cash – –
Add: amounts recorded – –
Less: amounts written off/reversed as irrecoverable – –
Less: amounts transferred to receivables for recovery – –
Other (Specify) – –
Closing balance – –

360
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
29.2. Accrued departmental revenue written off
Nature of losses
– –
– –
Total – –
29.3. Impairment of accrued departmental revenue
Estimate of impairment of accrued departmental revenue
– –
– –
Total – –
30. UNAUTHORISED, IRREGULAR AND FRUITLESS AND WASTEFUL EXPENDITURE
Unauthorised expenditure – current year – –
Irregular expenditure – current year  1 439 514  976 218
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure – current year 7 427 4 306
Total 1 446 941  980 524
During the current year, R1 439 million was identified and assessed to be irregular expenditure incurred in the 2022/23 financial year and was identified to be irregular during the
audit by AGSA, the amount of R1,439 million includes the amount of R58 million which has been approved to be removed and the details are included in the AFS.

361ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
31. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Revenue received
Tax revenue – –
Sales of goods and services other than capital assets – –
Fines, penalties and forfeits – –
Interest, dividends and rent on land – –
Sales of capital assets – –
Transactions in financial assets and liabilities – –
Transfers received – –
Total – –
Payments made
Compensation of employees  2 021  3 197
Goods and services  1 844  2 027
Interest and rent on land – –
Expenditure for capital assets – –
Payments for financial assets – –
Transfers and subsidies – –
Total 3 865 5 224
The prior year error on the payments made on behalf of the African Renaissance Fund is for compensation o employee, goods and services and remuneration for audit and risk
committee members.

362
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Year end balances arising from revenue/payments
Receivables from related parties 37 511
Payables to related parties – –
Total 37 511
Loans to/from related parties
Non–interest–bearing loans to/(from) – –
Interest bearing loans to/(from) – –
Total – –
Other
Guarantees issued/received – –
List other contingent liabilities between the department and related party – –
Total – –
In–kind goods and services provided/received
List in goods and services between the department and related party – –
Total – –
African Renaissance and International Cooperation is the related party to DIRCO and under the control of the Director General of the department.
DIRCO pays for the Secretariate Costs relating to compensation of employees, goods and services including the remuneration paid to members of the Audit and Risk Committee as
well as the external audit fees and these recognised in the Statement of Financial Performance.
In addition, DIRCO renderers services in kind to the African Renaissance and International Cooperation for the shared services of the Director General, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy
Directors General who serve in the Advisory Committee, Internal Audit and Risk Management Units which the fair value for these services cannot be reliably determined. Accordingly,
no amount is recognised in the Statement of Financial Performance for the value of these services rendered.

363ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
32. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
Political office bearers (provide detail below) 6 780 6 455
Officials:
Level 15 to 16  13 554 14 249
Level 14 (CIO)  1 726 1 649
Family members of key management personnel –
Total 22 060 22 353
Key management personnel (Parliament/Legislatures)
Speaker to Parliament/Legislature – –
Deputy Speaker – –
Secretary to Parliament/Legislature – –
Deputy Secretary – –
Chief Financial Officer – –
Legal advisor – –
Other – –
Total – –

364
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
33. PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP
Concession fee received 34 –
Base fee received –
Variable fee received –
Penalties 34 –
Unitary fee paid  292 568  276 801
Fixed component  27 947  27 947
Indexed component  264 621  248 854
Analysis of indexed component  264 621 248 854
Compensation of employees  – –
Goods and services (excluding lease payments)  123 848 123 848
Operating leases  – –
Interest  140 773 125 006
Capital/(Liabilities)  1 548 672 1 548 672
Tangible rights  – –
Intangible rights  – –
Property  1 491 202 1 491 202
Plant and equipment  57 470 57 470
Loans  – –
Other  39 729 39 366
Prepayments and advances  – –
Pre–production obligations  – –
Other obligations  39 729 39 366

365ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (PPP)
The Department concluded a Public Private Partnership Agreement with the Imbumba
Aganang Consortium on 13 March 2009 in terms of which the Private Party financed
designed constructed operates and maintains a suitable and sustainable working
environment for the Department of International Relations and Cooperation’s Head Office.
The scope of the project includes:
The provision of office accommodation for the full Head Office staff complements together
with appropriate staff wellness facilities necessary for the Department to fulfil its mandate.
A training facility.
A conference facility seating 400 delegates to accommodate the many local and international
conferences hosted by the Department.
The upgrading of the existing diplomatic guest house in Waterkloof; and the construction
of a new guest house on the same site as the Head Office.
The construction of the facilities was completed at the end of August 2009 and the
Department relocated into the facilities during September 2009. The operational phase of
the project which will continue for 25 years commenced on 20 September 2009.
The Unitary Fee for the project is fixed and agreed to in schedule 8 to the PPP Agreement.
The Unitary Fee is escalated annually with CPI. In addition to the fixed Unitary Fee the
Department pays to the Private Party monthly pass–through cost for utilities such as water
& electricity waste management and TV licenses as well as additional costs for third party
services such as catering events management and ad hoc requests e.g., additional network
cabling/power points. No contract fees are received from any third parties.
In terms of the PPP Agreement the Department has given the private Party a 25–year
contract to manage the facility and all the facility assets on behalf of the Department. The
Private Party is not the owner of the facility and should the PPP Agreement be terminated
before its expiry date the Private Party will not have a claim to the property but will be
entitled to a termination payment as described in clauses 47 to 50 of the PPP Agreement.
In addition to owning the facility the Department will upon expiry of the contract in
September 2034 own all the assets therein and may either manage it internally or enter
a new arrangement following the applicable procurement prescripts for the management
thereof.
During the term of the PPP Agreement the Private Party is obliged to provide and manage
the facilities and facility assets and replace the assets at the end of its economic lifespan.
This replacement of assets which includes major items such as lifts escalators carpets and
the HVAC systems as well as furniture fittings and equipment will take place in accordance
with the agreed maintenance and replacement provisions contained in schedules 4 and 6
to the PPP Agreement and is included in the agreed Unitary Fee. No additional costs are
thus foreseen in this regard.
The contract furthermore contains provisions for regular maintenance surveys to be
conducted by independent parties to ensure that the facilities are maintained adequately
and to ensure the replacement of furniture fittings and equipment at appropriate intervals.
In addition to the above the Private Party also performs the following facilities management
services: on site facilities helpdesk on site availability of electrical engineers’ plumbers and
handymen cleaning landscaping gardening and churn management. All costs associated
with these services are included in the agreed Unitary Fee.
During the year under review the Department continued its monthly meetings with the
Private Party and its operations subcontractor to manage the performance of the Private
Party as well as to administratively manage the PPP Agreement. No variations were made to
the PPP Agreement and no structural changes were undertaken. All facilities management
services are fully operational and internal mechanisms to assess the Private Party’s
performance and ensure that penalties are deducted for performance not in accordance
with the contract are in place.

366
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
34. IMPAIRMENT (OTHER THAN RECEIVABLES, ACCRUED DEPARTMENTAL REVENUE, LOANS AND INVESTMENTS)
Please specify – –
– –
Total – –
35. PROVISIONS
Please specify – –
– –
Total – –
35.1. Reconciliation of movement in provisions – Current year
2022/23
Provision 1 Provision 2 Provision 3 Total provisions
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Opening balance – – – –
Increase in provision – – – –
Settlement of provision – – – –
Unused amount reversed – – – –
Reimbursement expected from third party – – – –
Change in provision due to change in estimation of inputs – – – –
Closing balance – – – –

367ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
35.2. Reconciliation of movement in provisions – Prior year
2021/22
Provision 1 Provision 2 Provision 3 Total provisions
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Opening balance – – – –
Increase in provision – – – –
Settlement of provision – – – –
Unused amount reversed – – – –
Reimbursement expected from third party – – – –
Change in provision due to change in estimation of inputs – – – –
Closing balance – – – –
36. NON–ADJUSTING EVENTS AFTER REPORTING DATE
2022/23
Note R’000
Nature of the event
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 01 April 2023. –
–
Total –

368
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
3 7. MOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS
MOVEMENT IN MOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Opening balance
Value
adjustments Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
HERITAGE ASSETS  159 208 – –  159 208
Heritage assets  159 208 – – 159 208
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT  590 857  116 596  40 738  666 715
Transport assets  195 761  20 301  33 436  182 626
Computer equipment  160 563  15 520  1 866  174 217
Furniture and office equipment  176 293  15 540  4 256  187 577
Other machinery and equipment  58 240  65 235  1 180  122 295
SPECIALISED MILITARY ASSETS – – – –
Specialised military assets – – – –
BIOLOGICAL ASSETS – – – – –
Biological assets – – – – –
Total MOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS  750 065  –  116 596  40 738 825 923

369ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Number Value
Movable Tangible Capital Assets under investigation Note R’000
Included in the above Total of the movable tangible capital assets per the asset register that are under
investigation:
Heritage assets –
Machinery and equipment –
Specialised military assets –
Biological assets –
Total –

370
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
37 .1. MOVEMENT IN MOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Opening balance
Value
adjustments Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
HERITAGE ASSETS 159 198 10 – – 159 208
Heritage assets 159 198 10 – – 159 208
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT 572 536  (8 664)  54 262  27 277  590 857
Transport assets 206 976  (1 819)  1 417  10 813  195 761
Computer equipment 127 759  (809)  37 634  4 021  160 563
Furniture and office equipment 178 880  (5 582)  12 636  9 641  176 293
Other machinery and equipment 58 921  (454)  2 575  2 802  58 240
SPECIALISED MILITARY ASSETS – – – – –
Specialised military assets – – – – –
BIOLOGICAL ASSETS – – – – –
Biological assets – – – – –
Total MOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS 731 734 (8 654) 54 262 27 277 750 065

371ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
37 .1.1. Prior period error
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Nature of prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] (8 654)
(8 654)
–
Relating to 2021/22
–
–
Total prior period errors (8 654)

372
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
37 .2. Minor assets
MOVEMENT IN MINOR CAPITAL ASSETS PER THE ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Opening balance  –  –  192 95 602 – 95 794
Value adjustments – –
Additions – – –  3 033 –  3 033
Disposals – – –  3 305 –  3 305
Total Minor assets – –  192  95 330 – 95 522
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
Number of R1 minor assets – – –  24 062 –  24 062
Number of minor assets at cost – – –  91 052 –  91 052
Total number of minor assets – – –  115 114 – 115 114
Number Value
Minor capital assets under investigation Note R’000
Included in the above Total of the minor capital assets per the asset register that are under investigation:
Specialised military assets – –
Intangible assets – –
Heritage assets – –
Machinery and equipment – –
Biological assets – –

373ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
MOVEMENT IN MINOR ASSETS PER THE ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Opening balance  –  –  194  102 140  –  102 334
Prior period error  –  – (2)  (1 349)  –  (1 351)
Additions  –  –  –  1 825  –  1 825
Disposals  –  –  –  7 014  –  7 014
Total Minor assets  –  –  192  95 602  –  95 794
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
Number of R1 minor assets  –  –  –  25 456  –  25 456
Number of minor assets at cost  –  –  –  119 788  –  119 788
Total number of minor assets  –  –  –  145 244  –  145 244
37 .2.1. Prior period error
2021/22
Note R’000
Nature of prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] (1 351)
(1 351)
Relating to 2021/22
–
–
Total prior period errors (1 351)

374
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
37 .3. Movable tangible capital assets written off
MOVABLE CAPITAL ASSETS WRITTEN OFF FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Assets written off – – – 77 –  77
Total movable assets written off – – – 77  –  77
MOVABLE CAPITAL ASSETS WRITTEN OFF FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/21
Specialised
military assets Intangible assets Heritage assets
Machinery and
equipment Biological assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Assets written off – – – – – –
Total movable assets written off – – – – – –

375ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
37 .4. Movable tangible capital assets: Capital Work–in–progress
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Opening balance
1 April 2022 Current Year WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2023
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –
Machinery and equipment  –  –  –  –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –
Total  –  –  –  –
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Payables not recognised relating to Capital WIP
Amounts relating to progress certificates received but not paid at year end and therefore not included in capital work–in–progress
– –
– –
– –
Total – –

376
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Opening balance
1 April 2021
Prior period
error Current Year WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2022
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Heritage assets  –  –  –  –  –
Machinery and equipment  –  –  –  –  –
Specialised military assets  –  –  –  –  –
Biological assets  –  –  –  –  –
Total Annex 7  –  –  –  –  –

377ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
38. INTANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS
MOVEMENT IN INTANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Opening balance Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Software 41 176 91 551 132 727
Mastheads and publishing titles – – – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names, trademarks – – – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models – – – –
Services and operating rights – – – –
Total INTANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS 41 176 91 551 – 132 727
Number Value
Intangible Capital Assets under investigation Note R’000
Included in the above Total of the intangible capital assets per the asset register that are under investigation:
Software – –
Mastheads and publishing titles – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names, trademarks – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models – –
Services and operating rights – –

378
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
38.1. MOVEMENT IN INTANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Opening balance
Prior period
error Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Software 33 629 7 358 189 41 176
Mastheads and publishing titles – – – – –
Patents, licences, copyright, brand names, trademarks – – – – –
Recipes, formulae, prototypes, designs, models – – – – –
Services and operating rights – – – – –
Total INTANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS 33 629 7 358 189 41 176
38.1.1. Prior period error
2021/22
Note R’000
Nature of prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] –
7 358
Relating to 2021/22
–
Total prior period errors 7 358

379ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
38.2. Intangible capital assets: Capital Work–in–progress
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
Opening balance
1 April 2022
Current Year
WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2023
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Intangible assets Annex 7 – – – –
Total – – – –
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Payables not recognised relating to Capital WIP
Amounts relating to progress certificates received but not paid at year end and therefore not included in capital work–in–progress – –
– –
Total – –
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
Opening balance
1 April 2021
Prior period
error
Current Year
WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2022
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Intangible assets – – – – –
Total – – – – –

380
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
39. IMMOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS
MOVEMENT IN IMMOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Opening balance Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
BUILDINGS AND OTHER FIXED STRUCTURES  4 011 513 4 130 –  4 015 643
Dwellings  2 190 730 4 130 –  2 194 860
Non–residential buildings  1 819 038 – –  1 819 038
Other fixed structures  1 745 – –  1 745
HERITAGE ASSETS  7 096 – –  7 096
Heritage assets  7 096 – –  7 096
LAND AND SUBSOIL ASSETS  231 176 – –  231 176
Land  231 176 – –  231 176
Mineral and similar non–regenerative resources  – – – –
Total IMMOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS 4 249 785 4 130 – 4 253 915
Number Value
Immovable Tangible Capital Assets under investigation Note R’000
Included in the above Total of the immovable tangible capital assets per the asset register that are under
investigation:
Buildings and other fixed structures – –
Heritage assets – –
Land and subsoil assets – –
Total – –

381ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
39.1. MOVEMENT IN IMMOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS PER ASSET REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Opening balance
Prior period
error Additions Disposals Closing balance
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
BUILDINGS AND OTHER FIXED STRUCTURES  4 008 256  653  2 604  –  4 011 513
Dwellings  2 187 473  653  2 604  –  2 190 730
Non–residential buildings  1 819 038 –  –  –  1 819 038
Other fixed structures  1 745 –  –  –  1 745
HERITAGE ASSETS  7 096 – – –  7 096
Heritage assets  7 096 – – –  7 096
LAND AND SUBSOIL ASSETS  231 176 – – –  231 176
Land  231 176 – – –  231 176
Mineral and similar non–regenerative resources  – – – – –
Total IMMOVABLE TANGIBLE CAPITAL ASSETS 4 246 528  653  2 604  – 4 249 785
39.1.1. Prior period error
2021/22
Note R’000
Nature of prior period error
Relating to 2021/22 [affecting the opening balance] 653
653
Relating to 2021/22
–
Total prior period errors 653

382
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
39.2. Immovable tangible capital assets: Capital Work–in–progress
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Note
Opening balance
1 April 2022
Current Year
WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2023
Annex 7 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Heritage assets  –  –  – –
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  – –
Total  –  –  – –
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Payables not recognised relating to Capital WIP
Amounts relating to progress certificates received but not paid at year end and therefore not included in capital work–in–progress – –
– –
– –
– –
Total  –  –

383ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
CAPITAL WORK–IN–PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Opening balance
1 April 2021
Prior period
error Current Year WIP
Ready for use
(Assets to the
AR)/Contracts
terminated
Closing balance
31 March 2022
Note R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Heritage assets  –  –  –  – –
Buildings and other fixed structures  –  –  –  – –
Land and subsoil assets  –  –  –  – –
Total – – – – –
39.3. Immovable tangible capital assets written off
IMMOVABLE CAPITAL ASSETS WRITTEN OFF FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
2022/23
Buildings and
other fixed
structures Heritage assets
Land and s
ubsoil assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Assets written off – – – –
Total Immovable capital assets written off – – – –
IMMOVABLE CAPITAL ASSETS WRITTEN OFF FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
2021/22
Buildings and
other fixed
structures Heritage assets
Land and s
ubsoil assets Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Assets written off – – – –
Total Immovable capital assets written off – – – –

384
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
39.4. Immovable capital assets (additional information)
2022/23 2021/22
Estimated completion date Note Area Area
a. Unsurveyed land Annex 9
b. Properties deemed vested Annex 9
Land parcels
Facilities
Schools
Clinics
Hospitals
Office buildings
Dwellings
Storage facilities
Other
c. Facilities on unsurveyed land Duration of use Annex 9
Schools
Clinics
Hospitals
Office buildings
Dwellings
Storage facilities
Other
d. Facilities on right to use land Duration of use Annex 9

385ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Estimated completion date Note Area Area
Schools
Clinics
Hospitals
Office buildings
Dwellings
Storage facilities
Other
e. Agreement of custodianship Annex 9
Land parcels
Facilities
Schools
Clinics
Hospitals
Office buildings
Dwellings
Storage facilities
Other

386
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
40. PRINCIPAL–AGENT ARRANGEMENTS
40.1. Department acting as the principal
In terms of the Memorandum of Understanding Department of Home Affairs (DHA) will be responsible to provide the approved
tariffs for the Immigration and Civic services to DIRCO. Missions maintains and submit monthly revenue collection register and visa
statistics register as well as face value register for the DHA collection each month. DIRCO executes the receipts of cash from third
parties at the missions abroad on behalf of DHA – the principle and surrenders monies directly to the National Revenue Fund
as approved by the National Treasury the DHA collection each month. DIRCO executes the receipts of cash from third parties at
the missions abroad on behalf of DHA – the principle and surrenders monies directly to the National Revenue Fund as approved
by the National Treasury, parties at the missions abroad on behalf of DHA – the principle and surrenders monies directly to the
National Revenue Fund as approved by the National Treasury monies directly to the National Revenue Fund as approved by the
National Treasury.
Total – –
40.2. Department acting as the agent
40.2.1. Revenue received for agency activities
Include a list of the entities for which the department acts as an agent and the amounts received for these agency duties
Total – –

387ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
40.2.2. Reconciliation of funds and disbursements – Current year
2022/23
Total funds
received
Expenditure
incurred against
funds
Category of revenue or expenditure per arrangement R’000 R’000
Total – –
Reconciliation of funds and disbursements – Prior year
2021/22
Total funds
received
Expenditure
incurred against
funds
Category of revenue or expenditure per arrangement R’000 R’000
Total – –

388
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
40.2.3. Reconciliation of carrying amount of receivables and payables – current year
Receivables
2022/23
Opening balance
1 April 2022
Revenue
principal is
entitled to
Less: Write offs/
settlements/
waivers
Cash received
on behalf of
principal
Closing balance
31 March 2023
Name of principal entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
 –  –  – – –
 –  –  – – –
 –  –  – – –
Total  –  –  – – –
Payables
2022/23
Opening balance
1 April 2022
Expenses
incurred on
behalf of the
principal
Cash paid on
behalf of the
principal
Closing balance
31 March 2023
Name of principal entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Department of Home Affairs  195 730 – 150 575 45 155
 –  –  – –
Total 195 730 – 150 575 45 155

389ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
40.2.4. Reconciliation of carrying amount of receivables and payables – prior year
2021/22
Opening balance
1 April 2021
Revenue
principal is
entitled to
Less: Write offs/
settlements/
waivers
Cash received
on behalf of
principal
Closing balance
31 March 2022
Name of principal entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
 –  –  – – –
 –  –  – – –
 –  –  – – –
Total  –  –  – – –
Payables
2021/22
Opening balance
1 April 2021
Expenses
incurred on
behalf of the
principal
Cash paid on
behalf of the
principal
Closing balance
31 March 2022
Name of principal entity R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Department of Home Affairs 371 938 – 320 333 51 605
 –  – – –
 –  – – –
Total 371 938 – 320 333 51 605

390
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
41. PRIOR PERIOD ERRORS
41.1. Correction of prior period errors
2021/22
Amount before
error correction
Prior period
error Restated
Note R’000 R’000 R’000
Revenue: (E.g. Annual Appropriation, Departmental revenue, Aid assistance, etc.)
Line item 1 affected by the change – – –
Line item 2 affected by the change – – –
Line item 3 affected by the change – – –
Provide a description of the nature of the prior period error as well as why the correction was required.

391ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2021/22
Amount before
error correction
Prior period
error Restated
Note R’000 R’000 R’000
Expenditure: (E.g. Compensation of employees, Goods and services, Tangible capital assets, etc.)
Line item 1 affected by the change – – –
Line item 2 affected by the change – – –
Line item 3 affected by the change – – –
Net effect – – –
2021/22
Amount before
error correction
Prior period
error Restated
Note R’000 R’000 R’000
Assets: (E.g. Receivables, Investments, Accrued departmental revenue, Movable tangible capital assets, etc.)
Intangible assets (Software)  – 7 358 7 358
Movable tangible capital assets (note 37.1.1) – (8 654) (8 654)
Minor capital assets (note 37.2.1) – (1 351) (1 351)
Immovable tangible capital assets (note 39.1) – 653 653
Net effect (1 994) (1 994)

392
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2021/22
Amount before
error correction
Prior period
error Restated
Note R’000 R’000 R’000
Liabilities: (E.g. Payables current, voted funds to be surrendered, Commitments, Provisions, etc.)
Line item 1 affected by the change – – –
Line item 2 affected by the change – – –
Line item 3 affected by the change – – –
Net effect – – –
2021/22
Amount before
error correction
Prior period
error Restated
Note R’000 R’000 R’000
Other: (E.g. Unauthorised expenditure, Irregular expenditure, Fruitless and wasteful expenditure, etc.)
Irregular expenditure  311 496 664 722 976 218
Fruitless and wasteful expenditure 4 096 210 4 306
Leave (LRPS and Head Office)  –  45 45
Accruals 22 269 3 184 25 453
Related party transactions 5 224 5 224
Foreign Missions– VAT Claimable – 1 330 1 330
Net effect 337 861 674 715 1 012 576

393ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
42. BROAD–BASED BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT PERFORMANCE
Information on compliance with the B–BBEE Act is included in the Annual Report under the section titled, B–BBEE Compliance Performance Information.
43. COVID–19 RESPONSE EXPENDITURE
2022/23 2021/22
Note R’000 R’000
Compensation of employees – –
Goods and services 227 736
Transfers and subsidies – –
Expenditure for capital assets – –
Other – –
Total Annex 11 227 736

394
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 1B
STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO DEPARTMENTAL AGENCIES AND ACCOUNTS
2022/23 2021/22
TRANSFER ALLOCATION TRANSFER
Final Budget
Actual
transferDepartmental Agency or Account
Adjusted
Budget Roll overs Adjustments
Total
Available
Actual
transfer
% of available
funds
transferred
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
 African Renaissance & International Fund  49 699 – –  49 699 49 699 100%  48 546  48 546
 SA Development Partnership Agency  11 671 – –  11 671 – 0%  11 252 –
Total 61 370 – – 61 370 49 699  59 798  48 546

395ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 1E
STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS
2022/23 2021/22
TRANSFER ALLOCATION EXPENDITURE
Final Budget Actual
transferForeign government/International
organisation
Adjusted
Budget Roll overs Adjustments
Total
Available
Actual
transfer
% of available
funds
transferred
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Transfers
African Union  311 838 – –  311 838  311 838 100%  277 933  271 032
Group of 77 Countries  243 –  243  243 100%  234  222
India–Brazil– South Africa Trust Fund  16 316 –  2 099  18 415  18 415 100%  15 897  14 810
New Partnership for Africa’s Development  – – – – –
African Peer Review Mechanism  – – – – –
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development
 892 – –  892  894 100%  779  604
United Nations Development Programme  16 803 – –  16 803  16 322 97%  16 148  14 637
African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of
states
 8 667 –  (2 099)  6 568 – 0%  8 357  –
Commonwealth of Nation  10 220 – –  10 220  6 966 68%  9 994  7 575
Southern African Development Community  150 299 –  (1 811)  148 488  147 338 99%  128 467  129 831
United Nations  198 306 – –  198 306  185 807 94%  193 225  165 823
Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention  791 – –  791  410 52%  763  198
Comprehensive Nuclear–Test–Ban Treaty  7 239 – –  7 239  5 227 72%  7 945  5 464
Indian Ocean Rim Research Centre  389 – –  389  437 112%  375  348
Perez–Guerrero Trust Fund  98 – –  98  98 100%  94  96
South Centre Capital Fund  1 914 – –  1 914  1 718 90%  1 845  1 544
United Nations Convention on the Law of
Sea
 916 – –  916 0%  882  396

396
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
2022/23 2021/22
TRANSFER ALLOCATION EXPENDITURE
Final Budget Actual
transferForeign government/International
organisation
Adjusted
Budget Roll overs Adjustments
Total
Available
Actual
transfer
% of available
funds
transferred
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Humanitarian aid  25 137 – –  25 137  25 198 100%  24 492  15 182
Permanent Court of Arbitration  311 – –  311  237 76%  283  –
Asia–Africa Legal Consultative Organisation  337 – –  337  289 86%  341  265
International Tribunal for the Law of the sea  1 338 – –  1 338  924 69%  1 248  1 261
BIE – –  1 811  1 811  1 811 100%
Total  752 054  –  –  752 054  724 172  689 302  629 288
Subsidies
Total
Total  752 054  –  –  752 054  724 172  689 302  629 288

397ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 1G
STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO HOUSEHOLDS
2022/23 2021/22
TRANSFER ALLOCATION EXPENDITURE
Final Budget Actual
transfer
Household
Adjusted
Budget Roll overs Adjustments
Total
Available
Actual
transfer
% of available
funds
transferred
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 % R’000 R’000
Transfers
 H/H EMPL S/BEN:LEAVE GRATUITY  14 809 – –  14 809  8 094 55%  20 107  8 027
 H/H EMPL S/BEN:SEV PACKAGE  21 581 – –  21 581  11 091 51%  40 824  33 903
Total  36 390  –  –  36 390  19 185  60 931  41 930
Subsidies
Total
Total  36 390  –  –  36 390  19 185  60 931  41 930

398
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 1H
STATEMENT OF GIFTS, DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS RECEIVED
Name of organisation Nature of gift, donation or sponsorship
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Received in cash
Subtotal
Received in kind
Tsogo Sun Sponsorship of 20 hotel rooms for the winners, artists, programme directors and judges in Cape Town –  120
BMW Sponsorship for transport for winners, artists, programme and judges in Cape Town –  150
Sponsorship from MTN 250  600
Sponsorship from Vodacom 500  400
Sponsorship from Old Mutual 300 –
Sponsorship from Aspen 175
Addis  16
Ankara  20
Brazzaville  35
Brussels  237
Conakry  7
Copenhagen  26
Gaborone  4
Islamabad  152
Kampala  21
Lagos  23
Los Angeles  16

399ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Name of organisation Nature of gift, donation or sponsorship
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Lubumbashi  943
Madrid  26
Maputo  105
Mumbai  49
New York CG  52
New York UN  127
Port Louis  51
Tehran  130
The Hague  86
Tokyo  12
Warsaw  48
Windhoek  286
Subtotal  3 697  1 270
Total  3 697  1 270

400
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 1J
STATEMENT OF GIFTS, DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS MADE
Nature Of Gift, Donation Or Sponsorship
(Group Major Categories But List Material Items Including Name Of Organisation)
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Made In Kind
Botswana  12 –
Guinea Bissau  13 –
Switzerland  6 –
Iran  1 –
Equatorial Guinea  3 –
Egypt  3 –
Germany  32 –
Uruguay  2 –
France  4  2
Austria  1 –
Portugal  2 –
Burundi  2 –
Spain  13 –
Côte D’voire  22 –
Cuba  18 –
Palestine  13 –
Ghana  –  2
Lebanon  1 –
Syria  3 –
Angola  –  2
Kenya  36  3
Usa  32 –
Japan  6 –
Korea  2 –
Saudi Arabia  39 –

401ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Nature Of Gift, Donation Or Sponsorship
(Group Major Categories But List Material Items Including Name Of Organisation)
2022/23 2021/22
R’000 R’000
Turkey  1 –
Georgia  3 –
Saharawi  11 –
Azerbaijan  1 –
Cameroon  1 –
Gabon  1 –
Lesotho  2 –
Hellenic Republic  7 –
Belgium  36 –
London  68 –
Bangladesh  6  5
Nigeria  1  2
Poland  2 –
Ivory Coast  –  4
Russia  15 –
Qatar –  1
Palestine –  1
Uganda  14 –
Senegal  2
Kazakhstan  2 –
Drc  6 –
Tanzania  9 –
Sri Lanka  14 –
South Sudan –  3
Mozambique –  10
Ireland –  1
Total  466  38

402
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 3A
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL GUARANTEES ISSUED AS AT 31 MARCH 2023 – LOCAL
Guarantor institution Guarantee in respect of
Original
guaranteed
capital
amount
Opening
balance
1 April
2022
Guarantees
draw downs
during the
year
Guarantees
repayments/
cancelled/
reduced
during the
year
Revaluation
due to
foreign
currency
movements
Closing
balance
31 March
2023
Revaluations
due to
inflation rate
movements
Accrued
guaranteed
interest for
year ended
31 March
2023
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Motor vehicles
Subtotal
Housing
Standard Bank –  36 –  36 –  – – –
Nedbank Ltd –  17 –  17 –  – – –
ABSA –  74 – – –  74 – –
Nedbank LTD (NBS) –  37 – 37 –  – – –
FNB (FORMER SAAMBOU) –  15 – 15 –  – – –
NP Development Corp –  111 – –  111 – –
Subtotal  –  290  –  105  –  185  –  –
Other
Subtotal
Total  –  290  – 105 –  185  –  –

403ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 3B
STATEMENT OF CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
Nature of liability Opening balance
1 April 2022
Liabilities
incurred during
the year
Liabilities paid/
cancelled/
reduced during
the year
Liabilities
recoverable
(Provide details
hereunder)
Closing balance
31 March 2023
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Claims against the department
Summonses  707 663  811  599 105 –  109 369
Subtotal  707 663  811 599 105 –  109 369
Environmental liability
Subtotal
Other
Claims for repatriation flights 19 742 – 19 742 – –
Claims from other government entities  61 490 – – –  61 490
Subtotal  81 232 – 19 742 –  61 490
Total 788 895 811  618 847  –  170 859
Nature of liabilities recoverable
Total

404
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 4
CLAIMS RECOVERABLE
Government Entity
Confirmed balance
outstanding
Unconfirmed balance
outstanding Total Cash–in–transit at year end 2022/23 *
31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022
Receipt date up to six
(6) working days after
year end Amount
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Department
Science & Tech    6 703  1 370  6 703  1 370
Public Works   – –  –
Arts & Culture    926  231  926
Social Development.    71  353  71
Economic Development   – –  –
Agriculture, Forestry And Fisheries    227  1 909  227
Mineral Resources    55  186  55
Justice And Constitutional Development    276 –  276
Human Settlements   – –  –
Communications   – –  –
Public Service Commission   – –  –
Tourism    329 –  329
Public Works    173  173  173
Health    26 576  27 344  26 576
Gcis    245  410  245
Health Students    20 288  32 459  20 288
Presidency    5 612  2 691  5 612
Transport    1 292  4 534  1 292
Energy   – –  –
Cooperative Governance   – –  –
Public Enterprise   –  126  –

405ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Government Entity
Confirmed balance
outstanding
Unconfirmed balance
outstanding Total Cash–in–transit at year end 2022/23 *
31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022
Receipt date up to six
(6) working days after
year end Amount
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
DTIC    25 625  48 550  25 625
Water Affairs    67  304  67
Small Business Development   –  120  –
Environmental Affairs    42  253  42
Labour   –  1 575  –
Women   –  450  –
Home Affairs Official Visits    65 774  57 789  65 774
Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation    793  2  793
NPA   – –  –
Rural Development And Land Reform    – –  –
National Treasury    1 559  964  1 559
Government Pensions Administration
Agency    419  734  419
Telecommunications And Postal Services    2 462  1 870  2 462
Sports & Recreation    1 183  1 215  1 183
SARS    117  696  117
Police    32 053  25 823  32 053
DPSA    47 –  47
Higher Education And Training   –  90  –
Basic Education    663  241  663
Defence And Military Veterans    47 192  59 562  47 192
Irrecoverable Claims (National Pace
Accord)    34 418  34 418  34 418
Provinces
Eastern Cape    –   –

406
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
Government Entity
Confirmed balance
outstanding
Unconfirmed balance
outstanding Total Cash–in–transit at year end 2022/23 *
31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022
Receipt date up to six
(6) working days after
year end Amount
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Northern Cape    –  38  –
Western Cape    –   –
Free State    6 876  43 711  6 876
Mpumalanga    – –  –
Kwazulu–Natal    1 739  1 440  1 739
Gauteng    115 –  115
Limpopo    85  38  85
Subtotal  –  – 284 002 351 669 284 002 1 370
Other Government Entities
Compensation Commissioner   –  949  –  949
Iec   –  –  – –
Parliament    998  509 998  509
Sassa    50  60  50  60
State Security    142 312  52 780  142 312 52 780
Rand Afrikaans University     47  –  47
Transnet     19  –  19
Foreign Entities 13 966 – 13 966 –
Other Accounts    99  834  99  834
Subtotal  157 425  55 198  157 425 55 198
Total  –  –  441 427  406 867  441 427 56 568

407ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 5
INTERGOVERNMENT PA Y ABLES
GOVERNMENT ENTITY
Confirmed balance
outstanding
Unconfirmed balance
outstanding Total Cash–in–transit at year end 2022/23 *
31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022 31/03/2023 31/03/2022
Payment date up to six
(6) working days after
year end
Amount
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
DEPARTMENTS
Current
EC Department of Economic Development  –  610 – –  –  610
Subtotal  –  610 – –  –  610
Non–current
Subtotal
Total Departments  –  610 – –  –  610
OTHER GOVERNMENT ENTITIES
Current
Subtotal
Non–current
Subtotal
Total Other Government Entities
Total INTERGOVERNMENT PAYABLES  –  610 – –  –  610

408
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 8B
INTER–ENTITY ADVANCES RECEIVED (Note 20 AND Note 21)
ENTITY
Confirmed balance outstanding Unconfirmed balance outstanding Total
31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
Current
Science & Tech – –  2 374  323  2 374  323
Arts & Culture – –  10 114  6 561  10 114  6 561
Social Development. – –  657  519  657  519
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries – –  995  104  995  104
Mineral Resources – –  241  619  241  619
Justice and Constitutional Development – –  2  879  2  879
Health – –  2 664  1 843  2 664  1 843
GCIS – – –  284  –  284
Transport – – –  99  –  99
Public Enterprise – – –  109  –  109
DTIC – –  30 452  11 259  30 452  11 259
Water Affairs – – –  817  –  817
Small Business Development – –  470  500  470  500
Labour – –  444  376  444  376
Women – –  2 252  1 296  2 252  1 296
Home Affairs Official Visits – –  16 622  11 203  16 622  11 203
Telecommunications and Postal Services – –  5 934  1 145  5 934  1 145
Sports & Recreation – –  1 241  1 241  1 241  1 241
Police – –  9 757  3 090  9 757  3 090
DPSA – – –  1 188  –  1 188
Higher Education and training – –  2 232  787  2 232  787
Education Basic – – –  3  –  3
Defence and Military Veterans – –  1 842  2  1 842  2

409ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ENTITY
Confirmed balance outstanding Unconfirmed balance outstanding Total
31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Presidency – –  367 –  367  –
Health Students – – 2 205 – 2 205 –
Subtotal  –  –  90 865  44 247 90 865  44 247
Non–current
Subtotal
PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENTS
Current
Subtotal
Non–current
Eastern Cape – – – –  –  –
Northern Cape – – – –  –  –
Western Cape – – – –  –  –
Free State – –  18 972  20 200  18 972  20 200
Mpumalanga – –  19 783  846  19 783  846
Kwazulu–Natal – –  201 –  201  –
Gauteng – – – –  –  –
Limpopo – –  138  72  138  72
North West – – – –  –  –
Subtotal  –  –  39 094  21 118  39 094  21 118
PUBLIC ENTITIES
Current
COMPENSATION COMMISSIONER  –  –  763  2 284  763  2 284
PARLIAMENT  –  –  3 333  1 664  3 333  1 664

410
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ENTITY
Confirmed balance outstanding Unconfirmed balance outstanding Total
31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022 31/3/2023 31/03/2022
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
IEC  –  –  –  –  –  –
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNANCE  –  –  –  –  –  –
SASSA  –  –  –  93  –  93
SOUTH AFRICAN COMMUNIST PARTY  –  –  –  –  –  –
SAHRA  –  –  –  –  –  –
OTHER ACCOUNTS  –  –  1 066  1 570  1 066  1 570
STATE SECURITY  –  –  182 800  125 590  182 800  125 590
NHCSA  –  –  – –  –  –
FOREIGN ENTITIES – – 13 966 13 966
Subtotal  –  – 201 928  131 201  201 928  131 201
Non–current
Subtotal
OTHER ENTITIES
Current
Subtotal
Non–current
Subtotal
Total  –  – 331 887  196 566  331 887  196 566
Current  –  – 331 887  196 566  331 887  196 566
Non–current  –  –  –  –  –  –

411ANNUAL REPORT 2022/23  VOTE 6
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION (DIRCO) • VOTE 6
ANNEXURES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 March 2023
ANNEXURE 11
COVID–19 RESPONSE EXPENDITURE
Per quarter and in Total
Expenditure per economic classification
2022/23 2021/22
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Total
R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000
Compensation of employees – – – – – –
Goods and services 3 160 7 57 227 736
List all applicable SCOA level 4 items
Contractors 3 14 7 6 30  302
Consumable supplies – 146 51 197  340
Property payments – – – – –  94
Operating payments – – – – – –
Transfers and subsidies
List all applicable SCOA level 4 items
– – – – – –
Expenditure for capital assets
List all applicable SCOA level 4 items
– – – – – –
– – – – – –
Other expenditure not listed above
List all applicable SCOA level 4 items
– – – – – –
Total COVID–19 RESPONSE EXPENDITURE 3 160 7 57 227 736

NOTES

International Relations and Cooperation
Department:
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
international relations
& cooperation
Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
OR Tambo Building
Private Bag X152, Pretoria, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
DIRCOZA@DIRCO_ZA DIRCO  Flickr thedircozaDIRCOza