seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Newsflash507-27-01-2022.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Newsflash507-27-01-2022.pdf
title: Newsflash507-27-01-2022.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
Issue 507 | 27 January 2022





If this newsletter doesn’t load or images don’t display, please click here


SOUTH AFRICA, ZAMBIA CEMENT BILATERAL RELATIONS


President Cyril Ramaphosa and
Zambian President, Hakainde
Hichilema, have vowed to cement
bilateral relations between the two
countries during a meeting on
Wednesday, 26 January 2022, at
the Mahlamba Ndlopfu official
residence in Tshwane.

According to The Presidency, President Hichilema paid a courtesy visit to President Ramaphosa while visiting South Africa as an invited
guest speaker at a private function.
“President Hichilema’s courtesy call on President Ramaphosa provided an opportunity for bilateral discussions between South Africa and
Zambia ahead of an inaugural Bi-National Commission (BNC) scheduled for later this year,” The Presidency said in a statement.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
During the meeting, the two heads of state touched on regional issues, reaffirming South Africa and Zambia’s common international
policy of a stable and peaceful continent.
“This shared approach includes the use of multilateral bodies to advance the African Agenda and that of the global South, and the
collective solidarity of the SADC community in the fight against terrorism and insurgencies,” the statement read.
President Ramaphosa also commended Zambia’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, reasserting that developing countries must have
equity in developing and distributing vaccines.
The two leaders noted progress in the establishment of facilities in Africa for the production of vaccines and other therapeutics that will
reach populations around the continent.
“The leaders identified the need for South Africa and Zambia to keep one another abreast of investment opportunities in each country and
to actively encourage business to invest in areas of mutual benefit for regional development, such as in mineral beneficiation, local
manufacturing and agriculture,” The Presidency said.
South Africa and Zambia enjoy cordial bilateral relations, underpinned by strong historical and political bonds that date back to the era of
the liberation struggle and apartheid colonialism.
The two countries are expected to hold an inaugural BNC later this year.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA RECEIVES LETTERS OF CREDENCE BY
FOREIGN HEADS OF MISSION TO SOUTH AFRICA

President Cyril Ramaphosa on
Tuesday, 25 January 2022,
received letters of credence from
heads of mission-designate at a
credentials ceremony in Pretoria.
The President received 13 heads
of mission-designate who have
arrived in South Africa to serve
in diplomatic missions in South
Africa.



The heads of mission-designate from the following countries will serve at missions in South Africa with the aim of advancing diplomatic
relations:
Republic of Malawi
Argentine Republic
Romania
State of Israel
Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Republic of Ecuador
Republic of Congo
Mexico

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
Hellenic Republic
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
New Zealand
Republic of Cuba.
The credentials ceremony was attended by a select group of invitees, including representatives of government and media.


SCIENCE, INNOVATION VITAL TO ECONOMIC RECOVERY: PRESIDENT
RAMAPHOSA


As the country strives to recover
from the effects of the COVID-19
pandemic, President Cyril
Ramaphosa says science and
technology have a key role to
play in economic recovery.

Addressing the country in his weekly newsletter, the President said science and innovation were playing a far more prominent role both in
efforts to overcome the disease and rebuild the economy.
Last week, the President attended the launch of a state-of-the-art vaccine manufacturing campus in Cape Town.
The facility forms part of a multimillion rand investment by the multinational technology company, NANTWorks, which is headed by South
African- born scientist, Dr Patrick Soon-Shiong.
The President said South Africa already had advanced pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities in companies like Aspen Pharmacare,
Afrigen Biologics and Vaccine and the Biovac Institute, which is a public-private initiative.
“These projects will greatly aid South Africa in our quest to become a hub of scientific innovation, research and development, especially
in vaccine manufacturing for COVID-19, cancer, tuberculosis and other future pandemics.”
Thousands of miles away, in Cape Canaveral in the United States, President Ramaphosa said the aerospace company SpaceX’s Falcon
9 rocket successfully launched three South African-made nanosatellites into space. The satellites form part of a project to detect, identify
and monitor shipping vessels along our coastline.
“These are just some of the projects that demonstrate how science and technology have a key role to play in our economic recovery, in
attracting greater levels of investment and in contributing to skills, knowledge and technology transfer to capacitate our country’s
workforce.
“We are, therefore, prioritising investment in science, technology and innovation to revitalise and modernise existing industries, as well as
to create new sources of growth and stimulate industrialisation. There is huge potential in agriculture, mining, energy and manufacturing,
among others,” he said.
President Ramaphosa said this was an area where government had been pursuing several collaborative partnerships with the private
sector and academia to broaden the frontiers of scientific endeavour.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
“We have, for example, undertaken projects around hydrogen, energy storage and renewable energy. We have supported emerging
farmers through the Agricultural Bio-Innovation Partnership Programme. Government also has funding partnerships with a number of
South African universities in the field of nanotechnology development,” he said.
“We are looking far into space by enhancing the capabilities of the South African Square Kilometre Array radio telescope project and
supporting a number of new discoveries using the MeerKAT telescope. At the same time, we are using science to support and guide
municipalities to plan for and assess the risks of climate change.
“We are looking at how to harness new technologies for development, such as using 3D printing to build houses.”
Tech revolution
To build on the country’s successes and forge ahead with transformation to a truly digital economy and society, the President said they
relied on a combination of technical skill and intellectual enterprise.
“Visiting the Biomedical Research Institute at the University of Stellenbosch last week, [in] which our government has invested R300
million, it was not so much the impressive laboratories that inspired awe, but rather the human skills and capabilities that had enabled
such innovative research,” he said.
The President said there was a need for solid investment in skills development in these different industries, and a firm commitment to
increase the number of students studying science, if South Africa is to promote scientific excellence and its attendant economic benefits.
He said government would continue to support initiatives such as the Grassroots Innovation Programme of the Department of Science
and Innovation, which provides support to local innovators to develop their concepts, create prototypes and commercialise their ideas.
There is also the Imvelisi Enviropreneurs Programme, which has boot camps and business mentoring for innovators in the green
economy, and a host of other incubation initiatives being piloted on campuses across the country in areas such as deep learning, artificial
intelligence and data science.
As the country strives to harness science, technology and innovation in the cause of economic growth, the President said South Africa
provided all the necessary support to innovators and become a country that nurtures great ideas.
“As we have demonstrated during the course of this pandemic, South Africa is more than capable of holding its own in the international
scientific community.
“Through the combination of our established scientific infrastructure and expertise, new investment in research and development and
support to budding innovators, we will and are able to propel our country into the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” he said.
Most importantly, President Ramaphosa said the country would be able to more effectively use technology to grow the economy, create
jobs and improve people’s lives.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA COMMENDS MATRIC CLASS OF 2021

President Cyril
Ramaphosa has
commended and
applauded the Matric
Class of 2021 on the
success achieved by this
cohort of learners,
educators and parents.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

The overall 2021 National Senior Certificate pass rate, with progressed learners included, stands at 76.4% – an improvement of 0.2%
from last year, with 256 000 learners eligible for university entrance.
“We applaud the multiple successes and improvements recorded by learners during the second year of challenges presented by COVID-
19.
“Equally commendable is the support given to learners by educators and parents who made sacrifices of their own and placed the
interests of learners ahead of their own concerns,” the President said on Friday, 21 January 2022.
The President has urged those who did not make it not to give up but return to school and make another effort to better their lives.
“This is a moment for celebration for learners who have passed and a moment for other learners to return to their desks and make
another effort to advance their education and improve their quality of life into the future.
“Our Second Chance programme is another route to success,” he said.
President Ramaphosa has also called on learners to celebrate responsibly and safely within the COVID-19 health protocols.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


COMMEMORATION OF THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE ENTRY-INTO-
FORCE OF THE TREATY ON THE PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS (TPNW), 22 JANUARY 2022

South Africa marked the first anniversary of the entry-into-
force of the TPNW.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

Saturday, 22 January 2022, marked the first anniversary of the entry-into-force of the United Nations (UN) TPNW, which signals a
progressive march forward in humanity’s endeavour to rid the world of nuclear weapons.
Marking the entry-into-force of the TPNW, International Relations and Cooperation Minister, Dr Naledi Pandor, stated that: “Twenty-four
years ago in 1998, President Nelson Mandela in his last address to the UN General Assembly (UNGA) asked a pertinent question,
namely that: ‘We must ask the question, which might sound naive to those who have elaborated sophisticated arguments to justify their
refusal to eliminate these terrible and terrifying weapons of mass destruction – why do they need them anyway!’”
The TPNW is the culmination of that very first UNGA Resolution 76 years ago, in 1946, which sought to deal with the elimination of
nuclear weapons and other weapons adaptable to mass destruction. While the TPNW is not the final word on nuclear weapons, it is an
indispensable step in the advancement of the disarmament and non-proliferation architecture that is required to eventually achieve a
world free of nuclear weapons.
Since the catastrophic events of 1945 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the TPNW represents one of the most important developments in the
area of nuclear disarmament. The TPNW complements the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and represents the highest non-proliferation
standard that the international community must commit to.
Minister Pandor concluded: “This occasion provides an opportunity for all states that have not yet done so, to join an instrument that
expresses their total opposition to nuclear weapons without further delay. I take this opportunity to renew South Africa’s commitment to
the total elimination of nuclear weapons as the only guarantee that nuclear weapons will never again be used by anyone under any
circumstances. Nuclear weapons are immoral, unethical and they should not be allowed to exist.”


SOUTH AFRICA CONDEMNS THE COUP D’ÉTAT IN BURKINA FASO

The Government of South Africa condemns the coup d’état in Burkina Faso and calls on the
military to return to their barracks and restore democracy.

The South African Government agrees with the views of the Economic Community for West African States that soldiers should return to
barracks and utilise dialogue with the authorities to resolve all problems. There can never be a military solution to issues of this nature;
dialogue and negotiation are the only means of resolving conflict and arriving at lasting resolutions.
Loss of lives must be avoided at all costs and all stakeholders should commit to dialogue.
The South African Government strongly rejects unlawful seizure of power by any group, or individual as this reverses democracy and
development and retards the realisation of Africa’s aspiration for a better Africa as set out in our Agenda 2063.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

PORT INVESTMENTS TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS SOUTH AFRICA'S
ECONOMY


The Minister of Transport, Fikile Mbalula, has
unveiled critical investments that will contribute
towards advancing South Africa’s economic interests
through Operation Phakisa.

Among others, these investments include the construction of an onshore Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) regasification facility, a liquid bulk
operating licence to develop and operate a liquid bulk terminal and access rights for the Risk Mitigation Independent Power Producer
Procurement Programme (RMIPPPP).
“These ground-breaking investments will also give impetus to growing the oceans economy and the implementation of the
Comprehensive Maritime Transport Policy, which seeks to create a nurturing environment for entrepreneurs to develop and grow their
businesses,” the Minister said.
Addressing the media on Monday, 24 January 2022, during his visit to the Port of Durban, he said the investments represented the
sector’s contribution to the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan.
“To date, working closely with the Minister of Public Enterprises and the Transnet National Ports Authority, we have given a green light in
respect of a number of investments in the ports, which will deliver tangible economic dividends and place South Africa on a sustainable
growth path.
“The Strategic Fuel Fund will construct an onshore LNG regasification facility at the Port of Ngqura. This investment is of national
importance as it responds to the energy policy and energy security of the country. The total project value is estimated at US$1.5 billion,”
the Minister said.
Mnambithi Terminals will also develop and operate a liquid bulk terminal at the Maydon Wharf 6 at the Port of Durban.
The investment is aimed at contributing towards sustainable job creation during the construction and operation phases of the project.
“The construction phase will create over 1 500 temporary direct and other indirect job opportunities. The operation phase will create over
150 skilled and semi-skilled employment opportunities.
“This investment will significantly contribute to infrastructure development. The total construction investment is R1.5 billion. The US$26
million maritime vessel that is part of this investment, is the first chemical tanker to be acquired by a South African company and will soon
be flagged locally,” Minister Mbalula said.
Hillside Aluminium Proprietary Limited will renew existing leases in the Port of Richards Bay for a bulk storage silos facility, pitch tanks
terminal, stock yard facility and conveyor belt system effluent pipeline facility.
“Hillside stands at the apex of South Africa’s aluminium industry and is therefore, one of the major contributors to the country’s economy.
Their investment further supports the competitive existence of a downstream aluminium industry directly employing approximately 11 600
people permanently, while contributing to the indirect formal employment of 28 500 people,” the Minister said.
The direct contributions include revenue to Transnet and the Municipality of Richards Bay of R338 million per annum, local procurement
spend of R2 billion per annum and contribution to the tax base of R1.1 billion per annum.
“Dormac Marine Engineering will also renew existing leases, which will generate rental income for Transnet and eThekwini Municipality,
currently standing at R17.5 million per annum.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
“Durban premises and port premises in Cape Town, currently leased from Transnet at full commercial rentals, currently generate R20.6
million per annum for Transnet. Dormac employs 136 employees and this investment will preserve these,” the Minister said.
The Minister affirmed government’s commitment to accelerating interventions geared towards enabling small businesses and medium
enterprises participating in the transportation of commodities as part of promoting the development and growth of South Africa’s Ship
Registry.
“Plans to make our ship registry attractive and worthwhile for owners to flag ships in South Africa must be given impetus, using this
opportunity to expand our seafarer base.
“The private-sector participation in the sector should, among others, provide a multiplier effect to skills development and broadening
access to learning by those previously disadvantaged,” the Minister said.
He emphasised the importance of transforming the maritime sector by creating a nurturing environment for entrepreneurs with skills in the
composite industry to develop and grow their own businesses.
“The port infrastructure projects should boost the local content with increasing local supply chains and locally manufactured components
are critical to the growth of the maritime sector,” the Minister said.
He called on the private sector to participate in the broader agenda of developing and improving port operations.
“Addressing the long-standing issue of high cube containers, the department is committed to prioritise addressing this burning issue by
developing legislation that will give these the same status as double-decker buses and car carriers,” the Minister said.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


TRIBUTES POUR IN FOR “CITY PRESS” JOURNALIST


The Minister of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment,
Barbara Creecy, has expressed
profound sadness at the
passing of “City Press”
journalist, Poloko Tau.

Tau reportedly died at his residence in Mahikeng, in North West, on Friday afternoon, 21 January 2022.
He was part of a team of South African journalists who covered the South African delegation at the United Nations Climate Change talks
in Glasgow, United Kingdom, in December, where he interacted extensively with the delegation led by the Minister.
‘’I am deeply saddened by the unexpected news of his sudden passing and I remember fondly our extensive conversations on climate
change and the Just Transition to a low-carbon economy and society,” Minister Creecy said on Saturday, 22 January 2022.
The Minister extended her sincere condolences to his family and colleagues in the media fraternity.
“His important contribution to the public information debate on matters such as climate change and sustainable development will be much

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
missed by government and the fourth estate,” Minister Creecy said.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


GENDER COMMISSION SENDS CONDOLENCES TO PATRICK SHAI’S
FAMILY

The Commission for Gender
Equality (CGE) has expressed its
heartfelt condolences to the family
and friends of veteran actor and
gender-based violence (GBV)
activist, Patrick Shai.


According to a statement released by the family, Shai passed away on Saturday morning, 22 January 2022.
Commission chairperson, Tamara Mathebula, said the news of the passing of Shai had been met with sadness by all at the CGE.
“He will be sorely missed by those who had embraced him as a human rights and gender activist. We have worked closely with him in
advancing gender equality and issues of men and boys in South Africa.
“Ntate Shai was a compassionate hero of our struggle against GBV, who would use his artistic skills to ensure that the message gets
across to his intended audience.
“It is through men like Ntate Shai that we are seeing a shift in the mind-set among many men, and we shall continue in the same
trajectory to eradicate the scourge of GBV. As the commission, we mourn his passing and equally celebrate his life. He will be missed.
May his soul rest in peace”, Mathebula said.
Role model par-excellence
The presiding officers of Parliament have also paid tribute to Shai, describing him as a role model par-excellence.
National Assembly Speaker, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, and National Council of Provinces Chairperson, Amos Masondo, said Shai was
not just an artist, but a legend.
“He was a legend, an inspiring figure beyond the arts fraternity, a change maker, an exemplary leader and a true activist and advocate
against GBV.
“We are gutted and bitterly saddened by the loss of such a titanic and incomparable talent, an outstanding human being with a humble
personality,” the presiding officers said.
Through his organisation, Khulumandoda, Shai partnered with Parliament in its National Men’s Parliament initiative, which brought
together about 250 men and boys from across the country to engage them to become agents of change and integral partners in the
prevention of, and response in tackling the spread of HIV, GBV and femicide and other social ills.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
“South Africa has lost an extraordinary human being whose role, unrivalled talent and outstanding service to society can never be
replaced. May his soul rest peacefully,” Mapisa-Nqakula and Masondo said.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


PREMIER ZIKALALA WELCOMES RETURN OF SAA, QATAR FLIGHTS
TO KING SHAKA AIRPORT


KwaZulu-Natal Premier,
Sihle Zikalala, says the
tourism sector will benefit
significantly from the
recent return of both
South African Airways
(SAA) and Qatar Airways
to Durban’s King Shaka
International Airport.

Premier Zikalala said the move would help to further boost KwaZulu-Natal’s economic recovery.
“Through our Economic Recovery, Reconstruction and Transformation Plan, we have stated our commitment to increasing trade, tourism
and beneficial collaboration with the rest of the world.
“Efficient and regular aviation services are necessary if we are to increase visits to our province, grow tourism numbers and create jobs
up and down the value-chain,” Premier Zikalala said on Thursday, 20 January 2022.
This followed SAA’s announcement that its first scheduled flight will take off from OR Tambo International to King Shaka International on
4 March 2022.
This will be the first time in almost two years since the airline exited the route.
SAA said it would fly the route seven days per week, at least three times a day on a return service between the two cities.
SAA’s return to King Shaka Airport follows close on the heels of the resumption by Qatar Airways of flights out of Durban. Qatar, the Gulf
airline headquartered in Doha, resumed flying from KwaZulu-Natal on 14 January with an initial frequency of four flights a week.
Premier Zikalala said the resumption of SAA and Qatar Air flights between Durban and Johannesburg and Durban and Doha [capital of
Qatar] respectively, would benefit the tourism sector, which remains one of the greatest creators
He noted that direct links to mid-hemisphere hubs, such as Doha in the Gulf region, brought the world closer by providing easy access to
the global capitals of the world.
“The uptick in tourism numbers, which is directly related to aviation links, can only mean that KZN is truly on the rise, and that better
things will come in 2022. SAA is a major global brand in the aviation, travel and tourism industry, and it remains recognisable to tourists
and visitors wanting to visit our country from all corners of the globe.”
By returning to KwaZulu-Natal, he said, SAA would increase air links to the province by adding the number of airlines choosing to connect
to destinations in that province.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]



SALIM AND QUARRAISHA ABDOOL KARIM SCOOP ANOTHER
INTERNATIONAL AWARD

Durban scientists and
infectious disease
epidemiologist
professors Salim and
Quarraisha Abdool Karim
have been honoured in
Vietnam for their ground-
breaking research on HIV
prevention in South
Africa.


World-renowned Durban scientists and infectious disease epidemiologists at the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South
Africa (Caprisa), professors Salim and Quarraisha Abdool Karim, have been honoured in Vietnam as inaugural recipients of a VinFuture
special prize for their ground-breaking research on HIV prevention in South Africa.
The couple was awarded the VinFuture Special Prize for innovators from developing countries at a ceremony held at the Hanoi Opera
House in Vietnam on Thursday, 20 January 2022.
Guests included Vietnam Prime Minister, Pham Minh Chinh, and leaders of government ministries, ambassadors, Nobel laureates and
the founders of the VinFuture prize.
The award programme is part of the VinFuture Foundation, an independent, non-profit organisation set up by Phạm Nhật Vượng, the first
Vietnamese billionaire and founder and Chairperson of the largest Vietnamese conglomerate, VinGroup Corporate, with his wife, Phạm
Thu Hương, to create meaningful change in the lives of millions by recognising and rewarding transformative innovation in sci-tech.
Almost 600 nominations across 60 countries were received for the prize. Of these, nearly 100 were for the world’s top 2% most-cited
scientists, many of whom are themselves laureates of distinguished awards, including the Nobel Prize, Japan Prize and Tang Prize.
“The Abdool Karims have tirelessly championed the importance of science in defining the HIV and COVID-19 response,” said Chair of the
Caprisa board, Bongiwe Ntuli.
“South Africa is blessed to have such world-class scientists whose research is making the world a better place.
”The couple said the 2022 prize for scientists in developing countries was “a beacon of recognition for the many scientists in the
developing world who toil away each day in their laboratories, clinics and libraries, that scientific excellence is achievable in the midst of
adversity.
“While we serve as its recipients, this prize is recognition for the dedication and commitment to excellence by a team of more than 200
researchers in South Africa, with collaborators from five continents and thousands of volunteers who have participated in our studies over
the past 33 years,” they said.
The ceremony honoured the winners of the inaugural VinFuture prizes, including the US$3 million (about R45 million) VinFuture grand
prize and three US$500 000 (about R7.5 million) special prizes for female innovators, innovators from developing countries and
innovators with outstanding achievements in emerging fields.
– Source: TimesLIVE

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]


WESTERN CAPE CLAIMS THREE IN THE TOP 50 “MOST LOVED
DESTINATIONS”


Cape Town, Hermanus, Stellenbosch and
Knysna were all crowned with the titles of
“Most Loved Destinations in the World” with
three of these Western Cape gems ranking in
the top 50 out of 100 places globally.

Cape Town stood at #54, Hermanus at #41, Stellenbosch at #23 and Knysna at #19 according to the Tourism Sentiment Index (TSI).
The TSI is a travel data intelligence solution created by destination marketing agency Destination, which compiled the list.
An intensive data study that analysed more than 1.6 billion online conversations and content pieces publicly available on about 21 330
global destinations took place to unearth the “Most Loved Destinations”.
Overjoyed with the news, Western Cape Minister of Finance and Economic Opportunities, David Manier, expressed as per Wesgro:
“For four Western Cape towns and the Mother City to be identified in the top 100 most loved places in the world – following a global
consumer sentiment analysis – is an outstanding achievement. The last two years will go down in history as the most challenging years
thus far for the global tourism sector, and the rankings demonstrate that Cape Town and the Western Cape is a world-class destination
and a firm favourite on the global travel bucket list.”
“This announcement puts a huge pep in our step as Western Cape warriors – especially in light of tourism.”
As Wesgro announced, domestic travellers tripled between November and December of 2021 – at a 66% recovery rate. Internationally,
this number was at a peak in November last year at a 41% recovery rate, which unfortunately decreased in the later seasons of the year
due to the Omicron variant scare.
Nonetheless, the number of tourists grew by 28% compared to 2020.
Favourite attractions included Table Mountain Aerial Cableway, Cape of Good Hope, Boulders Beach and Robben Island. Kirstenbosch
Gardens were also able to recover about half of its 2019 figures in both November and December compared to 2019.
– Source: www.capetownetc.com


RAPPER NAS AND GOOGLE INVEST MILLIONS INTO SOUTH AFRICAN

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
MOBILE GAME PUBLISHER

Nas and Google are
investing over R300
million into Cape Town-
based mobile gaming
publisher.


American Rapper Nas has partnered with Google to invest over R300 million into Carry1st, a Cape Town-based mobile gaming publisher.
Founded in 2018, Carry1st employs 32 people across 14 countries and recently raised US$20 million (over R300 million) in a financing
round led by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, with participation from such big names as Nas, Google and Riot Games.
According to The Hollywood Reporter, as part of Andreessen Horowitz’s first investment in a company headquartered in Africa, partners
David Haber and Jonathan Lai will join the board of Cape Town, South Africa-based Carry1st, whose games include SpongeBob: Krusty
Cook-Off from studio Tilting Point.
SpongeBob: Krusty Cook-Off saw immediate success upon its announcement in 2019, with the strongest pre-registration performance of
any Nickelodeon game ever: more than 17 million players pre-registered.
At launch, it was one of the top 10 most downloaded games on iOS in 97 countries. It achieved this in 79 countries on Google Play.
“On the back of 96% monthly revenue growth, Carry1st will use the additional capital to expand its content portfolio, grow its product,
engineering and growth teams, and acquire tens of millions of new users,” the statement said. “Notably, Carry1st is expanding into game
co-development, working with leading game studios on original concepts and developing the infrastructure to support play-to-earn
gaming.”
“We’re excited to partner with this world-class group of investors who, in addition to capital, bring expertise across gaming, fintech, and
web3,” said Cordel Robbin-Coker, co-founder and CEO of Carry1st. “In 2021, we launched multiple games and digital commerce
solutions achieving really strong growth. Together, we can accelerate this growth and achieve our goal of becoming the leading
consumer Internet company in the region.”
– Source: www.goodthingsguy.com


JOBURG TEEN MAKES IT INTO PRESTIGIOUS IVY LEAGUE


Sazi Bongwe was Head of School at St John’s
College in 2021, and achieved nine distinctions in
his final matric exams, with an average of 95.9%.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

Johannesburg matriculant Sazi Bongwe has secured admission to Harvard University for the 2022 academic year, which kicks off in
August.
The 18-year-old achieved nine distinctions in his final Matric exams, with an average of 95.9% – in addition to building an impressive
extracurricular portfolio throughout his school career. For high school students with dreams of studying at a top university abroad, Sazi’s
journey is a masterclass in standing out to admissions officers.
Bongwe tweeted the photo of his family by his side saying that “getting into Harvard is crazy for me but the smiles of these people on
either side of me are all that matters.”
The reality is that applying to study overseas is a complex process, especially for South Africans – but if you start planning early enough,
it’s very possible for local students to realise their ambitions.
“For me, understanding all the things that go into a well-rounded application, from academics and extracurriculars to standardised testing
and essays, made the journey much easier,” says Sazi.
Traditionally, Harvard has exceptionally low acceptance rates. In 2021, the university received over 57 000 applicants and only accepted
1 968 students. While the number of applicants in prior years was lower, acceptance rates typically hover around 4%, with international
student acceptance rates coming in even lower. Understanding the differences between applying at home and overseas can give those
with big dreams an opportunity to turn them into a reality.
“Top American universities, like Harvard, look for students who demonstrate academic potential and are intellectually curious, passionate,
and innovative. For his capstone project, Sazi launched Ukuzibuza, an online platform that aims to respond to the injustices and
challenges faced by the youth. This provided admissions officers with an insight into who he is, as well as the impact he has had and will
have in the future,” says Rebecca Pretorius, Country Manager at global mentorship company Crimson Education, who assisted Sazi with
the application process to Harvard, as well as Stanford and Yale.
“My advice to other students wanting to study overseas is to think of the application as the culmination of you doing things that are
meaningful to you. Instead of doing something because it will lead to a good application, make sure that you’re doing things that are
meaningful and that you’re fully giving all yourself to them. The result of that will be a really impressive application,” says Sazi.
– Source: www.goodthingsguy.com


THE CAPE TOWN CARNIVAL RETURNS

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
The Cape Town Carnival will
return on 19 March, since it
was first postponed in 2020
due to the COVID-19
pandemic.


Instead of floats and large crowds lining the streets, the Cape Town Carnival 2022 has been moved to five different hubs, adhering to
COVID-19 health and safety protocols. Festival-goers will enjoy 30-minute shows and performances while exploring Cape Town's streets,
restaurants and galleries.
Adhering to the number of people allowed in a venue, the hubs will be sanitised before every show and visitors will be screened on entry,
with compulsory mask-wearing in place. There will be a one-hour interval between each show for venues to be sanitised, and it will take a
visitor about 10 to 15 minutes to enter a hub as they go through COVID-19 screening protocols and ticket check-in.
"This year's Cape Town Carnival will move people like never before. Literally. Visitors curate their own experience as they move between
five distinct outdoor carnival hubs across the city," explains Jay Douwes, CEO.
On 19 March, the Cape Town Carnival 2022 will take place at five different hubs from 14:30 to 21:30 on the day: The Mountain of
Memories at Hatfield Street Hub, the Cultural Roots at the National Gallery Hub, the Tales of Camissa at the South African Museum Hub,
Imswenko at the Heritage Square Hub, and The Drum Era at the Green Market Hub.
Visitors will be able to visit any or all of the differently colour-coded hubs, in any order, at a designated timeslot. Each hub has varying
capacity depending on the size of the space, ranging between 2 000 to 4 500 attendees.
"We're driven by the fundamental belief in the power of creativity. This inspired the Cape Town Carnival team to find a new way to bring
joy to the city once more."
The Cape Town Carnival has historically been a free event, but Cape Town Carnival 2022 will require pre-booked attendance with visitors
supplying COVID-19 track-and-trace information through booking and purchasing a R10 ticket per person, per show, at the official Cape
Town Carnival website.
For R50, a visitor will experience five different and unique shows.
Tickets for Cape Town Carnival 2022 will also be sold on the day at each of the five hubs, online at the official website,
or www.webtickets.co.za
 or at Pick n Pay. One ticket is valid for one show at one of the five hubs.
– Source: www.news24.com


ZOZIBINI TUNZI TO MAKE FILM DEBUT IN “THE WOMAN KING” WITH
VIOLA DAVIS AND THUSO MBEDU

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
Former Miss South Africa and
Miss Universe 2019, Zozibini
Tunzi, has been cast in the
upcoming American historical
epic film, “The Woman King,
written by Dana Stevens and
directed by Gina Prince-
Bythewood.


It stars Viola Davis, Thuso Mbedu, Lashana Lynch and John Boyega.
Shot on location in South Africa, other familiar faces who have signed on are Masali Baduza, Seputla Sebogodi, Thando Dlomo and
Makgotso Monyemorathoe. Grammy Award-winner Lebo M created five original songs for the film.
Sharing the news on Instagram, Zozibini wrote: "I am so honored and excited to announce that I have been cast for the film, The Woman
King (@womankingmovie).
"It is a completely new world and first time experience for me so I enter it with the utmost respect and humility. Forever grateful and
looking forward. [sic]"
The film is scheduled to be theatrically released by Sony Pictures releasing in September 2022.
– Source: www.news24.com


ADIDAS UNVEILS TSONGA-INSPIRED COLLECTION WITH SOUTH
AFRICAN DESIGNER RICH MNISI


Adidas has launched a vibrant collection of apparel and footwear
in collaboration with South African contemporary fashion
designer, Rich Mnisi.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

The new range features a line-up of bold pieces that celebrate Mnisi’s Tsonga heritage with apparel that supports a range of sports,
including running, cycling, swimming and training.
Alongside the performance pieces are statement streetwear looks featuring exaggerated silhouettes designed to fuse style, colour and
function. The drop is also rounded off with Adidas footwear lines, including Superstar, UltraBoost and Forum, which have been reborn
with Mnisi's signature prints via a series of design accents that feature throughout.
In a statement shared by Adidas, the brand says that Mnisi’s dedication to push the dial on the celebration of identity intersects with
Adidas’ belief that through sport, they have the power to change lives. The result is a line that pushes the boundaries of sport style, all
with self-expression at the heart.
Pieces in the collection fuse bright, bold animal prints, vibrant clashing colours and striking abstract patterns that come together to tell the
exciting story of Mnisi's roots. Each piece has been designed to be worn as a standout piece or accessorised and layered for a more
individual and expressive look.
Reflecting heritage, self-expression and community
Reflecting Reflecting Mnisi’s vision for celebrating community, habitat and homeland environments, hero styles and performance pieces
have also been made in part with recycled materials and Parley Ocean Plastic, to help end plastic waste. The campaign features Mnisi's
close circle and local community in South Africa, a line-up of inspirational figures who he believes use their identity to push culture
forward.
Mnisi comments on the launch saying, “I am immensely proud to present this collection in collaboration with Adidas, an iconic brand that I
grew up seeing on people of colour that were rewriting the arts. It has been a pleasure to bring my designs to classic pieces. We have
created a bright, unique collection that reflects my love for the idea of community and heritage, individuality and self-expression. Our aim
was to create pieces that support life on and off the sports field.”
“The spirit of this collection celebrates our homeland, so environment was an important aspect when looking at methods and materials
used in the creation process. I am so pleased we’ve used Adidas advanced technology and partly recycled materials. I am truly excited
for the world to see this collaboration come to life,” Mnisi adds.
– Source: www.bizcommunity.com


SOUTH AFRICAN STAR LIZELLE LEE CROWNED ICC WOMEN'S
CRICKETER OF THE YEAR

Proteas women's opening
batter, Lizelle Lee, has been
honoured with the 2021
International Cricket Council
(ICC) Women's One-Day
International (ODI) Cricketer of
the Year accolade.


The right-hander scored 632 runs in the 50-over format last year, averaging a whopping 90.28 in 11 games, with five half-centuries and

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
an unbeaten ton as she helped South Africa to second spot on the ICC Women's ODI Rankings.
Her undefeated 132 off 131 balls (16 fours, 2 sixes) against India in Lucknow in March 2021 was undoubtedly the highlight of the year for
the 29-year-old, with the knock propelling the South African women to a six-run victory and a 2-1 series lead before they wrapped up a
historic series win in the next game.
Lee has remained atop the Women's ODI batting rankings on 761 points, in front of Australia's Alyssa Healy (75) and India's Mithali Raj
(738).
In 2022, Lee and her Proteas teammates will set their sights on the Women's Cricket World Cup to be hosted in New Zealand from 4
March to 3 April.
– Source: www.news24.com


DE KOCK PROPELS PROTEAS TO MEMORABLE ODI SERIES
WHITEWASH OVER INDIA


Quinton de Kock's scintillating
century steered the Proteas to a
series whitewash following a
win in the third and final ODI
against India at Newlands on
Sunday, 23 January 2022.

The Proteas sealed the three-match ODI series 3-0 with a four-run win in sweltering Cape Town weather.
Setting a record target chase at Newlands by a non-South Africa side after the hosts were bowled out for 287, India knew they had to
make a strong start.
De Kock brought up his 17th one-day century after the Proteas were sent to bat on what was a hot morning at Newlands Cricket Ground.
De Kock shared a 144-run fourth-wicket partnership with batter Rassie van der Dussen to put the Proteas in the driving seat.
Van der Dussen struck 52, while De Kock fell for a brilliant 124 off 130 balls (including 12 fours and two sixes) in quick succession.
David Miller scored 32 before the Proteas lower order collapsed to 287 all out in 49.5 overs.
Prasidh Krishna was the pick of the Indian bowlers as he ended with figures of three for 59 in his 9.5 overs
– Source: www.news24.com


DAVIDS BRACE SEALS MAGICAL MALAGA TITLE FOR BLITZBOKS

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

Selvyn Davids scored a last-gasp
try to secure yet another Sevens
title for the Springbok Sevens team
when they beat Argentina 24-17 in
the Malaga Sevens final on Sunday
evening, 23 January 2022.


Davids' brace of tries was two of the four tries scored by Neil Powell's side, who twice had to come back from deficits to claim the crown.
While the final success wasn't quite the revenge for Argentina dumping them out of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Sevens tournament, the
Blitzboks conceded an early try, then watched Joaquin de la Vega scoring a brace that saw Argentina move from 12-5 down to lead 17-
12.
Davids scored South Africa’s first try to give them a 7-5 lead, from where JC Pretorius added his touchdown to give South Africa their
five-point buffer.
De la Vega's brace threatened to derail South Africa's title defence as he took Argentina to a 17-12 lead, but Justin Geduld levelled things
out.
After putting Argentina under severe breakdown pressure, the Blitzboks gradually found gaps and with the Pumas defence stretched,
Davids burst through a gap and scored the match-winning try.
– Source: www.news24.com


SOUTH AFRICA’S DOMINIQUE SCOTT-EFURD RACES INTO TOP 3 IN
HOUSTON HALF MARATHON AND BREAKS SA 20 KM RECORD


Two-time Olympian
Dominique Scott-Efurd
clocked a huge personal
best in finishing third at
the Houston Half-
Marathon, when she
produced the second-
fastest time ever by a
South African women’s
athlete over 21.1km and
broke the SA 20km
record.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]

The 29-year-old competed in the 5 000 and 10 000m at the Tokyo Olympics, but showed her quality on the road over the longer distance
in Houston, on a chilly, windy (20km/h) morning. (She had been training in Colarado with snow next to the track so she was well
prepared!)
Dominique’s 67min 32sec finish split the two best times ever recorded by South Africans – Elana Meyer’s 66:44 from 1999 and Colleen
De Reuck’s 68:38 in 1989.
Writing on Instagram afterwards, Dominique said: “Yesterday was a good day! I think I surprised everyone with that run, even Joe and
myself, but I felt like I was right where I belong! Thank you for all the love and support ”
Dominique was in a group who went through the 15km mark in 47:51 (67:18 pace) and she held on courageously over the final 6km to
carve more than three minutes off her previous best.
She also congratulated her fellow competitors saying: “We pushed each other and elevated the game! And a big congrats to @sarahall3
on your shiny new American Record! Was an honor running with you in your historic race.”
Kenya’s Vicoty Chepngeno crossed the line first in Houston in 65:03, followed by American Sara Hall (67:15), which was 10 seconds off
Molly Huddle’s American record.
Dominique added in a new post: “South African 20km Record  Yesterday I found out that my 20km split of 64:04 broke the National
Record!! Proud to put my name in the record books and continue the legacy of South African road running.” The previous 20km record
was held by De Reuck.
Dominique, who also clocked a new PB for 10km and 15km, said: “I’ve learned that running often doesn’t go our way, but hard work will
ALWAYS be rewarded (just not always on our timeline ) If you’re going through a slump, I encourage you to keep grinding and believing.
Your breakthrough just might be right around the corner!”
– Source: www.sapeople.com


SOUTH AFRICA'S UMPIRE MARAIS ERASMUS HONOURED AFTER
REACHING 100TH ODI MILESTONE

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]
South Africa's Marais Erasmus has
officiated in his 100th One-Day
International (ODI) as an on-field
umpire, becoming the third South
African to reach the milestone.


Erasmus says he is honoured to serve the game he loves as hopes to continue to officiate the best of his ability.
The International Cricket Council (ICC) has congratulated its award-winning umpire as he stands in the ongoing three-match ODI series
between the Proteas and India.
The opening ODI between the Proteas and India saw South African umpire Marais Erasmus officiating in his 100th men's ODI series as
an on-field umpire.
Erasmus reached the landmark at Boland Park, a ground where he played for Boland in his playing career from 1988/89 to 1996-97.
Erasmus scored 1 913 runs and took 131 wickets in 53 first-class matches. In List A matches, he scored 322 runs and took 48 wickets.
The 57-year-old, who won the ICC Umpire of the Year Award in 2016 and 2017, has also officiated in 70 Test matches, 35 Men's T20Is
and 18 Women's T20Is since making his international debut in February 2006.
Erasmus became only the third South African umpire to stand in 100 ODIs, behind Rudi Koertzen (209) and David Orchard (107).
"It is an honour to be officiating in my 100th ODI. I have enjoyed my time as an umpire and will continue to do my best in the times to
come," said Erasmus.
The ICC congratulated Erasmus for officiating in his 100th ODI and he received a token before the match in Paarl on Wednesday, 19
January 2022.
"Marais is a very consistent umpire with a fine temperament. It is no surprise that he has reached this milestone and I am sure he will
continue to do well in the coming years," said Adrian Griffith, ICC Senior Manager - Umpires and Referees.
"I congratulate him on behalf of everyone at the ICC and wish him all the best for the future. He has served the game well and is a role
model for many aspiring umpires the world over."
– Source: www.news24.com

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash507-27-01-2022.html[2023/02/17 15:41:15]



Stay Connected with us

For back issues of NewsFlash, visit: http://www.dirco.gov.za/department/newsflash.html