seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue13a_compressed.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue13a_compressed.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue13a_compressed.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

1 2
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Constitution Hill, Johannesburg: In 1902, while the Old Fort was incarcerating white prisoners,
additional sections, known as Numbers Four and Five, were established to house black prisoners.
Political prisoners included Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo, Mahatma Gandhi, Robert Sobukwe
and Albert Luthuli.
In the spirit of Ubuntu

2 3
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 13
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
The image, Two Red Shoes, by Clint Strydom
is part of the solo exhibition, Hidden Shadows
and Silent Voices of Prison Number 4, which
is on show until 27 August 2017 at Constitu-
tion Hill, Johannesburg (see page 100). The
prisoners incarcerated at Constitution Hill only
received shoes after spending a year in the
prison. These shoes were something of value, a
powerful visual representation of the conditions
that the prisoners had to endure and a reminder
of the person who used them. A total of 156
people, including South Africa’s first democrati-
cally elected President, Nelson Mandela, and
the country’s pioneer diplomat, Oliver Reginald
(OR) Tambo, were arrested and held at the
prison complex before the historic Treason Trial
in 1956. Two years later, 2 000 women were
detained after protesting the pass laws. Today,
South Africa’s highest court, the Constitutional
Court, is situated at Constitution Hill. It is a living
museum that tells the story of South Africa’s
journey to democracy. Between 1994 and 1996,
South Africa's first fully democratic Parliament,
sitting as the Constitutional Assembly, drew up
South Africa's new Constitution, which took
effect on 4 February 1997. This year, Parliament
celebrates the 20th anniversary of South Africa’s
Constitution, which is the supreme law of the
land. It is one of the most progressive in the
world and enjoys high acclaim internationally.
2017 also marks the centenary of OR Tambo.
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger
Creative Director
Pumeza Albert
Advertising
Zengeziwe Msimang – msimangz@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0919
Distribution
Thembakazi Zulu – ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1169
Photographers
Cover: Clint Strydom.
Jacoline Schoonees; Yandisa Monakale; Michelle Greeff; UN Photo;
Elmond Jiyane, Government Communication and Information System; Evan Schneider;
Pete Souza; The Lenasia Indicator; John Gribble Collection; Megaliths.org / Sylvie Ivanova;
Matthew Karsten; World Intellectual Property Organisation; Chris Bertish Facebook;
and SA Tourism
Acknowledgements
President Jacob Zuma; Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, former Chairperson of the African Union
Commission; Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation;
Nathi Mthethwa, Minister of Arts and Culture; Luwellyn Landers, Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation; Dr Anil Sooklal, Deputy Director-General: Asia and the Middle East,
Department of International Relations and Coopertion (DIRCO); Andre Groenewald, Director:
Mediation Support Unit, DIRCO; Pragashnie Adurthy, DIRCO; Department of Arts and Culture;
Department of Tourism; Sisa Ntshona, Chief Executive Officer, SA Tourism; Manusha Pillai,
Director: Stakeholder Relations and Communications, Human Sciences Research Council;
Romaana Naidoo, Media Club South Africa; and www.brandsouthafrica.com
Advertisers
South African Airways, Transnet, Standard Bank, Legacy Motor Group, Huawei,
Apartheid Museum, Aspen, Spoor & Fisher, ZTE, Wines of South Africa and Koyo Elevator
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation,
e-mail address and delivery address in the body to ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Back-issue enquiries
ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084
Republic of South Africa
www.dirco.gov.za@theDIRCOza thedircoza DIRCOzaDIRCO flickr
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
www.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO flickr
A better South Africa * A better Africa * A better world
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in actionTel: +27 12 351 1000
9 772304 669009
ISSN 2304-6694
International Relations and Cooperation
Department:
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
international relations
& cooperation
Issue 13

4 5
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
South African treasures:
Celebrating our rich
genetic resources
. . .78
Lifestyle
108
118
IORA bound together by
a strategic resource26
6  Letter from the Minister
10 Publisher’s note

12  OR Tambo respected and honoured worldwide
14 Let us create the Africa we want to live in
18  Celebrating Africa Day on a continent with hope
20  Internationalisation and social cohesion
22  South Africa strengthens ties with BRICS partners
26  IORA bound together by a strategic resource
30  The struggle for independence of Western Sahara
 from Morocco
36  20 years of the Red Fort Declaration: A cause for
 celebration
contents
Diplomacy
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
In every issue
12
OR Tambo respected and honoured worldwide
40  President Barack Obama’s African legacy
42  Ubuntu Awards 2017: “Celebrating OR Tambo …
 In his footsteps”
48  Minister Pandor wins 2016 AAAS Science
 Diplomacy Award
50  Female diplomats empowered
UBUNTU magazine – issue 13
KZN makes Top 20
best-kept travel secrets
in the world list
Ester Mahlangu pays
tribute to Madiba
56  Five globally important archaeological sites in Africa
62  Transformation and unity crucial for a sustainable tourism sector
64  Business tourism thriving and more to come
66  Knowledge-based solutions to Africa’s challenges
68  The Most Beautiful Object in South Africa
70  African filmmakers discuss the state of African cinema
74  SA charity wins Laureus Sport for Good Award
76  SA hosts prestigious global event for entrepreneurs
78  South African treasures: Celebrating our rich genetic resources and
 cultural heritage
84  South African Mint reveals new colour coins
86  Flying the SA flag
94 #a good story to tell
LIFESTYLE
Feature
52  Liberation Heritage: Ahmed Kathrada
54  SS Mendi – One of SA's most heart-wrenching
 tragedies
100  Hidden Shadows and Silent Voices on Prison Number 4
104  A New Wave showcases SA’s design talent
108  Ester Mahlangu pays tribute to Madiba
110  Another Michelin for JAN Restaurant
112  South Africa’s Route 62 world’s best road trip
118  KZN makes Top 20 best-kept travel secrets in the world list
122  Africa’s grandest gathering

6 7
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
T
he year 2017 has been
declared by our government
as the Year of OR Tambo,
one of the most outstanding
leaders of the liberation
struggle who mobilised
international solidarity against apartheid and
contributed to shaping the vision of a post-
apartheid democratic South Africa.
During the State of the Nation Address
earlier this year, President Jacob Zuma
reflected on Oliver Tambo's role in setting
our foreign policy outlook. The President
recounted OR’s words at the first congress
of the People's Movement for the Liberation
Letter from the Minister
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
of Angola (MPLA) in Luanda in 1977 when
he said: “We seek to live in peace with our
neighbours and the peoples of the world
in conditions of equality, mutual respect
and equal advantage.” In this regard, OR,
as he was affectionately known, mobilised
the largest truly global solidarity movement
rooted on the African continent and extending
to the global South and the North. His legacy
continues to guide the values of South Africa’s
foreign policy, namely: Patriotism, Loyalty,
Dedication, Ubuntu, Equity, Integrity and
Batho Pele. As we celebrate the centenary
of OR Tambo, we draw inspiration from
his exemplary leadership and vision which
accorded him the accolade of an international
statesman and an astute, consummate
diplomat.
Between 1994 and 1996, South Africa's
first fully democratic Parliament, sitting as
the Constitutional Assembly, drew up South
Africa's new Constitution. Parliament has set
aside 2017 for celebrating 20 years of South
Africa’s world-acclaimed Constitution, as well
as the National Council of Provinces (NCOP).
The Constitution was signed into law by the
first democratically elected President, Nelson
Mandela, on 10 December 1996, and came
into effect on 4 February 1997, followed
by the inaugural session of the NCOP on
6 February 1997.
The celebration of the Constitution and
the NCOP is a watershed moment for
every sector and every individual in South
Africa. It marks the coming of age of South
Africa’s constitutional democracy, which
demonstrated high levels of resilience and
maturity, sometimes, under trying conditions.
The department took a conscious decision
to deliver its Budget Vote in Parliament on
25 May, Africa Day, to reaffirm our commitment
to contribute to a peaceful and prosperous
Africa.
Our foreign policy is guided by the
Government's apex strategy, the National
Development Plan (NDP), which sets out a
long-term vision that seeks to address the
triple challenges of unemployment, poverty
and inequality, and put South Africa on a
path towards long-term development and
prosperity. In this regard, Chapter Seven of the
NDP envisions an active role for South Africa
in the region, the continent and the world. We
therefore seek to build strategic partnerships
for development to advance our national
interests and promote the enduring values
that define our nation, namely: democracy,
human rights and good governance.
This enjoins us to continue pursuing
regional, political and economic integration
and promote Africa’s development through
sustained South-South solidarity and mutually
beneficial relations with the North. We are
conscious that this can be fully achieved
within a reformed, just, fair and equitable
global system of governance.
Our international programme is executed
in a volatile, uncertain, complex and an
ambiguous global environment. This
environment is characterised by the rise of
nationalism and populism, fueled by growing
inequality and unemployment. We believe
that a people-centred development agenda
based on the recently adopted sustainable
development goals should be the basis for
addressing the myriad of challenges that
confront nations across the globe, instead of
a retreat to short-term populist solutions. The
onset of a multipolar world we live in today
increases the prospects for an equitable
diffusion of global power and for mutually
beneficial relations among nations.
The ever-changing environment requires
us to constantly recalibrate the contours of
our foreign policy to ensure the continued
effective execution of our mandate. In
this vein, we have consistently adapted
our economic diplomacy strategies which
continue to yield tangible dividends that
benefit all South Africans.
During the 2016 Budget Vote Speech,
we indicated that our development was
inextricably linked with that of our region
and our continent and as such, we placed a
strong emphasis on industrialisation efforts
in the region. Accordingly, the process of
boosting the productive capacity of the
region's economies is underway with a focus
on developing and boosting its manufacturing
capacity.
As incoming Southern African Development
Community (SADC) Chair of Summit for
the 2017 to 2018 period under the theme:
“Partnering with the Private Sector in
Developing Industry and Regional Value
Chains”,  we will focus on harnessing the
participation and involvement of the regional
private sector in the implementation of the
SADC Regional Industrialisation Strategy and
Roadmap.
Efforts are also underway to accelerate
the implementation of the SADC-Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa-East
African Community Free Trade Area, which
will enhance intra-Africa trade and build
towards the achievement of the Continental
Free Trade Agreement.
The year 2017 has been declared by the
African Union Heads of State and Assembly
as the year of "Harnessing the Demographic
Dividend through Investment in the Youth".
This provides an opportunity for the continent
to leverage the youth bulge to propel its
socio-economic development. There is a
need for an integrated approach to improve
youth development across the continent and
to ensure their full participation in economic
activities. In this regard, it is incumbent upon
us to invest in young citizens to address the
high levels of unemployment and poverty,
For our part, we have been hard at work in
sourcing educational opportunities for South
African students abroad. I am happy to report
that, among many others, we have secured,
in 2016, 200 fully funded scholarships for
South African students in the Americas
and Europe regions. Under the aegis of the
Tokyo International Conference on African
Development’s Africa Business Education
initiative, 80 South African students are
currently studying for Master’s degrees in
highly technical fields in Japan, which will
be followed by internships at Japanese
companies.
Our Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa (BRICS) membership has consolidated
our position globally and within emerging
markets. This partnership is yielding fruitful
benefits in which our people are already
benefiting from the New Development Bank
– which recently announced the allocation of
funds for renewable energy.
South Africa will take over the Chairship of
BRICS from 1 January to 31 December 2018
and we will host the 10th BRICS Summit.
During our tenure, we will focus on deepening
BRICS cooperation for common development,
enhancement of global governance to jointly
meet our shared challenges, carrying out
people-to-people exchanges to support
BRICS cooperation and institutional
improvements, among others.
Our participation in the Forum on China-
Africa Cooperation is realising tangible
results, as noted through the outcomes of last
year’s Second Investing in Africa Forum held
in China. The Memorandum of Understanding
on exploration on various infrastructure
development initiatives, which includes the
Moloto Rail Development Corridor, will have a
direct impact on the lives of our people.
Moreover, we will assume the Indian Ocean
Rim Association (IORA) Chairship in August
2017. IORA is a strategic formation that
creates a platform for countries in the Indian
Ocean Rim to deepen cooperation in areas
such as ocean economy for shared prosperity.
Our commitment to the pursuit of the
African Agenda enjoins us to place it high on
the G20 Agenda.
Through our Co-Chairship of the
Development Working Group of the G20,
we will continue to promote the principle
of inclusivity for the benefit of our continent
and the global South. Thus, our efforts are
geared at ensuring that the trajectory of the
support from the G20 is aligned to Africa’s
development agenda.
The United Nations (UN) with its near
universal membership and vast agenda
remains the most important multilateral
institution and the centre of global governance.
Our key priority is advancement of the reform
agenda in order to strengthen the UN.
In its current status, the UN has failed to curb
unilateral actions by powerful nations which
undermine its founding principles. These
practices risk the reversal of gains made by
the collective, including the implementation of
the Paris Climate Change Pact.
The international community regards
climate change as the single biggest threat
to well-being, health and socio-economic
development facing humanity this century. Its
impacts are widespread, unprecedented and
disproportionately burdens to the poorest and
most vulnerable.
South Africa therefore expressed its
profound regret over the decision of the
United States of America (USA) to withdraw
from the Paris Agreement, which reflects
the multilateral agreement to keep global
temperature increases to well below
2 degrees Celsius.
South Africa has full confidence that the
momentum of the collective effort to address
climate change will only accelerate. We
recognise the outstanding contribution made
to the fight against climate change in the
USA by past administrations, states, cities,
scientific organisations, civil society, business
and individual citizens. South Africa therefore
calls on the USA to reconsider its position and
to re-commit to the multilateral process.
We reaffirm that we shall spare no effort
in contributing to a better life for all South
Africans, a better Africa, in a better world.
South Africa will take over the Chairship of the
BRICS from 1 January to 31 December 2018
and we will host the 10th BRICS Summit
.
During our tenure, we will focus on deepening
BRICS cooperation for common development,
enhancement of global governance to jointly
meet our shared challenges
...
As incoming Southern African Development
Community (SADC) Chair of Summit for the
2017 to 2018 period under the theme:
“Partnering with the Private Sector in Developing
Industry and Regional Value Chains”, we will
focus on harnessing the participation and
involvement of the regional private sector in
the implementation of the SADC Regional
Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap
.

8 9
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Bloubergstrand in the Western Cape is one of the world’s most popular kitesurfing destinations,
also offering surfing, windsurfing and a variety of other outdoor sports. Each year, this popular
beach attracts kitesurfing professionals and enthusiasts from countries such as Germany, the
Netherlands and the United States, to name just a few of the most devoted.

10 11
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Let’s talk foreign policy . . .
Publisher’s note
T
he article published in Daily
Maverick ahead of the recent
African Union (AU) Summit:
“Absence of Zuma and
Ramaphosa raises eyebrows”
on 27 June 2017 argued that
“since [Dr Nkosazana] Dlamini Zuma stepped
down from the [the position of] AU Commission
Chair, South Africa had shied away from
occupying other important AU posts”.
The article quoted a consultant at the
Institute of Security Studies, who said South
Africa was “ceding power to other players on
the continent, such as Rwanda’s President
Paul Kagame and the current AU Chairperson,
President Alpha Condé of Guinea”.
The notion that South Africa is disengaging
from the AU and the continent is misinformed.
In all our work, we remain committed to our
vision of championing an African continent,
which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic,
non-racial, non-sexist and united and which
aspires to a world that is just and equitable.
On the perception that South Africa is
“ceding” power to individual leaders within
the AU, it must be said that such a view is
misplaced. President Kagame was assigned
a specific task by the Assembly of Heads of
State in July 2016, held in Kigali, to undertake
a study aimed at reforming the AU and its
organs.
The reforms are aimed at addressing some of
the challenges facing the AU, such as “failure
to implement decisions”, “overdependence on
partner funding,” “underperformance of some
organs” and “inefficient working methods”.
President Kagame was given this task by
the Assembly and South Africa fully supports
the initiative to revitalise the AU. Indeed, the
decision of the July 2016 Summit to institute
the reforms was not taken overnight.
Dr Dlamini Zuma had already initiated some
of the reforms, including an improvement in the
working methods and financial self-reliance.
On the need for African states to take greater
responsibility in funding the AU, the summit
held in June 2015 in South Africa decided to
establish the AU Foundation, a vehicle for
resource mobilisation on the continent.
Through the establishment of the foundation,
the AU undertook to work with the African
people, including the private sector, to explore
innovative sources for funding. At the last
summit, we saw President Robert Mugabe of
Zimbabwe make a donation of US$1 million
through the foundation. South Africa is not in
competition with leaders of the AU who are
assigned specific roles by the AU. The Chair of
the AU, President Condé of Guinea, assumed
this role in January 2017 and will hand over to
a new Chair in January 2018. All AU member
states, including South Africa, will continue
to support President Condé for the duration
of his tenure. At the same time, South Africa
continues to play an active role in the AU
through various ways, including as a member
of the AU Peace and Security Council. In this
role, we are at the forefront of efforts to bring
lasting peace and stability to the continent,
particularly in countries such as Libya, South
Sudan, Sudan (Darfur), Somalia and Western
Sahara.
South Africa will continue to lead the
multifaceted discourse on the future of the AU.
In August, we will assume the role of Chair of
the 15-state Southern African Development
Community (SADC), one of the AU’s most
dynamic regional economic communities
(RECs). The AU cannot operate optimally if the
RECs are not operating likewise.
When President Kagame presented his
report on institutional reforms of the AU, he
emphasised that “there should be a clear
division of labour between the AU, RECs,
regional mechanisms, member states and
other continental institutions, in line with the
principle of subsidiarity”.
Having made the transition in 2002 from
an Organisation of African Unity that was
formed to lead the struggle against colonialism
and apartheid to an AU that is waging a new
struggle for Africa’s economic independence,
South Africa believes that its own economic
development depends on growing regional
and international economic cooperation in an
independent world. Accordingly, our country
is fully behind efforts by the AU to launch
the envisaged Continental Free Trade Area
(CFTA). On 7 July, the Minister of Trade and
Industry, Dr Rob Davies, signed the agreement
establishing the Tripartite Free Trade Area
(TFTA) at a meeting held in Kampala, Uganda.
The meeting was attended by the trade
ministers and officials from the Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA), East African Community (EAC)
and SADC. Once the TFTA enters into force, it
will reduce tariffs on goods traded between the
tripartite countries, creating new opportunities
for exports as well as regional value chains.
South Africa will continue to amplify Africa’s
voice globally. The outcome of the G20 Summit,
held in Germany, saw the leaders of some of
the world’s biggest economies acknowledge
that any cooperation with the continent must be
on the basis of “African ownership” and “equal
partnership”.
Our country’s development is intrinsically
connected to that of the southern African
region and the continent as a whole. As such,
Africa will remain at the core of all our foreign
policy endeavours.
In all our work, we remain committed to our vision
of championing an African continent, which is
prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial,
non-sexist and united and which aspires to a
world that is just and equitable
.
South Africa will continue to lead the multifaceted
discourse on the future of the African Union (AU).
In August, we will assume the role of Chair of
the 15-state Southern African Development
Community, one of the AU’s most dynamic
regional economic communities (RECs). The
AU cannot operate optimally if the RECs are not
operating likewise .

12 13
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
T
he South African Government
has declared 2017 as the
Year of OR Tambo to honour
this international icon of our
liberation struggle. If the
late President of the African
National Congress (ANC) was still alive, he
would have been celebrating 100 years on
27 October 2017.
History tells us that the best leaders are
from humble beginnings. Oliver Reginald
Kaizana Tambo was born in the village
OR Tambo respected and
honoured worldwide
“It is our responsibility to break down barriers of
division and create a country where there will be
neither whites nor blacks, just South Africans, free
and united in diversity
.”
By the Department of Arts and Culture
of Kantolo, Bizana, in the Mpondoland
(eQawukeni) region of the Eastern Cape,
on 27 October 1917. On completion of his
primary and secondary schooling, he went
on to study at the then-named College of Fort
Hare, known as the University of Fort Hare
today, where he joined the Students Christian
Association.
Tambo graduated his BSc degree in
Mathematics and Physics at Fort Hare and
further enrolled for a Diploma in Higher
Education. On 24 July 1951, Tambo qualified
as an attorney. In the early 1940s, Tambo
joined the ANC, an organisation founded in
1912 that opposed white supremacy. In 1957,
Tambo was elected Deputy President of the
ANC.
Subsequent to the Sharpeville Massacre
on 21 March 1960, Tambo embarked on a
“Mission in Exile” to gain international support
for the South African liberation movement.
During 1963 and 1964, Tambo made a
number of high-profile speeches to present
the ANC to the world, the most prominent
being the one made to the United Nations
(UN) in October 1963. This speech inspired
the UN Resolution 18 of 11 October 1963,
calling on the South African government to
release all political prisoners. As President
of the ANC, OR Tambo was afforded
international status equivalent to a head
of state during the liberation struggle. He
mobilised the international community
to support South Africa to fight against
apartheid and was at the forefront in
establishing ANC offices in various countries.
He engineered one of the most sophisticated
liberation struggles that saw a coordinated
expression of the mass movement,
underground units, armed struggle and
international solidarity.
For many decades, he was at the forefront
in providing leadership for both the external
and internal structures of the liberation
movement against apartheid oppression and
repression.
OR Tambo is respected throughout the
world as an embodiment of the highest
values. He is recognised as an eminent leader
who succeeded in mobilising his people and
the international community to the national
cause of South Africa and to the international
cause of fighting racism, xenophobia and the
consolidation of an international human rights
movement.
As the major driving force behind the unity
of the progressive forces in South Africa,
he advocated for radical political changes
in South Africa through a revolutionary
overthrow of the apartheid regime and the
reactionary Bantustan political systems.
The agenda led by ANC President
OR Tambo reinforced struggles against
racism, colonialism and oppression, which
were fought elsewhere in the world and his
efforts also determined the balance of political
and economic forces within the global political
and economic order.
He was an intellectual of note, who
reinforced continuing discursive engagement,
analytical description of the different phases
of the liberation struggle and provided clearer
understanding of the advances and political
achievements of the liberation movement.
Layers of political, military, cultural and
economic leaders under the tutelage of
President OR Tambo were developed to
occupy strategic leadership positions, and
they are still inspired by the teachings and
influence of this great African leader.
The South African Government holds
in high esteem his works as a negotiator,
peacemaker, calm force and brilliant
strategist.
The National Order of the Companions
of OR Tambo, bestowed by the President
of South Africa, to foreign citizens who
have promoted South African interests and
aspirations through cooperation, solidarity
DIPLOMACY
and support, is testament to this. During the
ANC Conference held in Durban in 1991,
Tambo declined to stand for any position. The
position of National Chairperson was created
in his honour. Nelson Mandela was elected
President of the organisation.
The freedom enjoyed today can be
attributed to his political zeal, his vision and his
unique leadership qualities, which kept such
a huge political movement together, keeping
that extensive network of freedom fighters
together, focussed on achieving victory over
the apartheid regime and preparing cadres
of the movement to take over the running of
their beloved country.
27 October 2017, which marks the
Centenary of OR Tambo, will be one of the
important dates in the history of South Africa
and the world. On this historical day, the
South African Government will host an august
event which will attract the international
community. It will be preceded by a series of
build-up events hosted in South Africa and
abroad.
South Africans and the international
community will reflect on the life of this
great and selfless leader, visionary, patriot
OR TAMBO RESPECTED AND HONOURED WORLDWIDE DIPLOMACYOR TAMBO RESPECTED AND HONOURED WORLDWIDE
For many decades, he was at the forefront in
providing leadership for both the external and
internal structures of the liberation movement against
apartheid oppression and repression.
and great freedom fighter and celebrate the
principles and the ideology he espoused,
hailing his relentless leadership which led
to the demise of the apartheid regime and
inspire young people as future leaders.
The OR Tambo Centenary is being
implemented under the auspices of the
South African Government’s Resistance
and Liberation Heritage Route (RLHR)
Project which is the National Chapter of
the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation/African Union Roads to
Independence Programme.
The RLHR provides an opportunity for the
collection of stories about the movement and
the continuity of the liberation struggle, the
continuity of actions, exchange of ideas and
it sets the context for critical reflection on the
road traversed, the dialogue and engagement
across the country and the transboundary
coordination of the liberation struggle.
It will also link with existing freedom trails.
During the early hours on 24 April 1993,
Oliver Reginald Tambo passed away, and on
that day our country lost the son of the soil.
His legacy is alive, and it is still a fountain
with fresh waters which quench the thirst of
present and future generations.
His epitaph reads in his own words: “It is
our responsibility to break down barriers of
division and create a country where there
will be neither whites nor blacks, just South
Africans, free and united in diversity”.
The South African Government holds in high
esteem his works as a negotiator, peacemaker,
calm force and brilliant strategist
.

14 15
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Let us create the Africa
we want to live in
The future we are building today must leave Africa integrated, prosperous
and peaceful, for current and future generations .
By Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma
Former Chairperson of the African Union Commission
T
he year 2017 is heralded by
some important developments.
Last year, Cuba, Africa
and the world bid farewell
to the greatest revolutionary
and internationalist of our
time, Fidel  Aleandro Castro Ruz. He played
a critical role in the global struggle against
colonialism and imperialism, and for non-
alignment and unity of the countries of the
South.
His sustained contributions to Africa
are legendary: the support to liberation
movements; to newly-independent states;
in the development of African education
and health systems; the training of health
personnel; all in the spirit of solidarity,
friendship, internationalism and mutual
respect.
As Castro said about the Cuban solidarity
in his address to the South African Parliament
in 1998: “The Cuban soldiers who fought in
Angola (and I might add for the freedom
of Namibia and South Africa) did not take
anything home, except their dead”.
Our greatest tribute to Fidel Castro is
to continue our friendship and solidarity
with the Cuban people, for the full lifting of
the economic embargo and the return of
Guantanamo Bay to the Cuban people.
This year marks a number of historical
milestones.
Firstly, 2017 marks 55 years since the
formation of the Pan-African Women’s
Organisation (PAWO) in 1962, a year before
the Organisation of African Unity (OAU).
The women came from newly independent
states and liberation movements, determined
to play their role, side by side with the menfolk,
in liberating Africa.
The women’s movement, as we
celebrated the OAU/African Union (AU)
Golden Jubilee in 2013, recognised
the role of the founder mothers, when
they declared:
DIPLOMACYLET US CREATE THE AFRICA WE WANT TO LIVE INDIPLOMACY LET US CREATE THE AFRICA WE WANT TO LIVE IN
Since 60% of the unemployed are young, with
their unemployment rate double that of adults,
we must resolve to decisively tackle youth
unemployment.
Our programmes of beneficiation and
economic diversification, of agricultural
modernisation and the development of agro-
processing, must of necessity target the
creation of jobs and economic opportunities
for young entrepreneurs.
In this regard, we welcome the African
Development Bank Strategy for Jobs for Youth
in Africa 2016 – 2025, which aims to create
25 million jobs and impact on 50 million youth.
The bank estimates that “reducing Africa's
youth unemployment rate to that of adults,
would translate to a 10% to 20% increase in
the continent's gross domestic product”.
We must ensure that African children,
young men and women see the blue ocean
economy as part of their natural heritage and
for possible career paths. The same goes for
our celestial space and careers in the space
sciences.
To unlock their full potential, we should
do more to involve young people. This is
economically prudent, and a democratic
imperative, since they constitute the majority
of our population.
By involving young people, they have a
sense of ownership and stake in the future.
By facilitating the full participation of girls and
young women, we secure the future.
The future of Africa belongs to youth, but
the quality of that future will be determined by
what they do with it today. Youth, therefore,
have responsibilities to learn, read, serve,
participate, innovate, build and create.
They have a responsibility to be organised,
at local, national and continental levels, so
they can help drive Agenda 2063.
“… African women and their Diaspora sisters
played a critical role in the evolution of Pan-
Africanism, through their contributions to
the anti-slavery, anti-colonial and liberation
struggles.”
Through their efforts, women ensured
that African struggles for freedom, dignity,
development, peace and self-determination
also addressed our aspirations for women’s
emancipation, gender equality and women’s
empowerment.
In tribute to the founding mothers, it is
therefore appropriate that the assembly
recognises PAWO as a specialised agency of
the AU.
The task of PAWO today is to continue
the struggle for the empowerment of girls
and women, through education and skills,
in the political, social, cultural and economic
spheres. They must continue to advocate and
work for a peaceful and safe Africa for all its
people.
Without this mobilisation of women,
progress on Agenda 2063 will be slow.
The year 2017 also marks a centenary since
the birth of a pre-eminent freedom fighter,
Pan-African, scientist, diplomat, teacher and
democrat, Oliver Reginald Tambo, who was
born in 1917.
After the Sharpeville Massacre in 1961,
Tambo was given the responsibility to seek
support among African countries, to take
forward the struggle from exile. He diligently
pursued this mission for over three decades,
until South Africa was free.
As the longest-serving leader of the African
National Congress, he led the armed struggle,
the campaign to isolate apartheid and worked
with the OAU and its Liberation Committee. He
was passionate about women’s emancipation,
about education as both a Science teacher
and lawyer, about young people, and about
peace and democracy.
It is perhaps appropriate that the centenary
of his birth coincides with the African Year
of Youth, as he said: “The children of any
nation are its future. A country, a movement,
a people that does not value its youth and
children, does not deserve its future.”
As we celebrate this Year of Youth, we
must indeed commit to value our youth and
deserve Africa’s future.
The future we are building today must leave
Africa integrated, prosperous and peaceful,
for current and future generations.
It is befitting that our theme for 2017,
“Harnessing the Demographic Dividend,
through Investment in African Youth”, is about
building this future today.
The continent has 200 million young men
and women aged 15 to 24 years. By 2025, a
quarter of the world’s youth under 25 will be
African. As the rest of the world ages, Africa
will remain a young continent. This is the
comparative advantage we have, which must
be translated into a demographic dividend.
To harness this resource, we must
provide all African boys, girls and young
people with opportunities to be in school,
complete secondary education, have access
to vocational training and universities, and
to expand their knowledge of Science,
Mathematics, Engineering and Technology.
Within this, we must pay special attention
to creating opportunities for girls and young
women, so that we use the full potential of all
our resources.
At the African Economic Platform, held
in Mauritius from 20 to 22 March 2017, we
engaged the business and academic sectors
to close the gap between industry and
education systems. Strengthening this link
will help eradicate the skills mismatch to stop
graduate unemployment and address the
shortages of engineers, agricultural scientists,
biologists, geologists and a host of other skills.
We must support the call by civil society,
for an African Decade of Reading, so that the
new generations may learn from and renew
Pan-Africanism.
On our part, we will this year appoint a Special
AU Envoy for Youth to mobilise and advocate
for the youth during this year of harnessing
the demographic dividend.
Despite the challenges we face, we have
countless examples of governments leading
society, acting decisively in building a better
life for current and future generations.
We congratulate Egypt for being the first
African country to start an ultra-modern
connection of 900 km of high-speed rail
between Alexandria and Aswan. Egypt is
showing us that the dream of a Pan-African
integrated high-speed rail network that
connects all African capitals and commercial
centres, can be realised.
The future of Africa
belongs to youth,
but the quality of
that future will be
determined by what
they do with it today.
Youth, therefore,
have responsibilities
to learn, read, serve,
participate, innovate,
build and create.

16 17
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
It includes countries such as Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Chad, the Democratic Republic
of Congo (DRC), Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Niger, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Sudan, The Gambia, Uganda,
and Zimbabwe, which have launched
campaigns to end child marriages, to give girls
the opportunity to stay in school, to be healthy
and to reach their full potential. We hope other
countries who still have this practice, will join
the campaign.
It includes the sterling organisation by
the women who travelled from across the
continent to gather on the slopes of the
majestic Mount Kilimanjaro, and who adopted
their Charter on Land Rights.
It also includes the Women in Maritime
Africa, which is asserting women’s right
to be part of the blue ocean economy, as
ship-owners and builders, port and logistic
management. They contributed to the Lomé
Charter on Maritime Security, Safety and
Development, and are working with the AU on
the annexures.
It includes Ethiopia, DRC, Côte d’Ivoire,
Mozambique, Tanzania and Rwanda, which
are recording the fastest compound growth
on the continent and are among the fastest-
growing economies in the world.
These countries, along with those who set
the target of reaching middle-income status in
the coming decade, are contributing towards
eradicating poverty in one generation.
It also includes the 13 countries that made
the solemn commitment to lead in launching
the Single African Aviation Market in 2017, as
per the Yamoussoukro Declaration.
They recognise that Africa will be the fastest-
growing aviation market in the coming
20 years.
 Already in 2013, it transported over
70 million passengers annually and supported
6,9 million jobs.
The countries that made the start to open
their skies to fellow African countries, like
Rwanda, Ethiopia, Kenya and South Africa,
are helping to lead the way in Africa claiming
its airspace.
We must encourage all countries to join
them to open their airspaces to all African
countries.
It include the steps taken by Botswana,
Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya,
Lesotho, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal and
others on industrialisation, beneficiation and
value addition, as well as the initiatives to
build regional value chains, as we are poised
to start the Continental Free Trade Area.
It also includes the good examples of
progress on free movement of persons,
following the launch of the African Passport in
Kigali last year.
And it includes Benin, Comoros, Ghana,
Madagascar, Mozambique, Namibia,
Rwanda, Seychelles, Togo and Uganda,
which are already offering visa-free access or
visa on arrival for all Africans. We hope that
they too will be joined by others.
It includes the work we do with the Diaspora,
as an integral part of the African Renaissance
and the global struggle against racism and
intolerances. It includes the ongoing work to
put the AU on the route to self-reliance, and
to build a union of people that is effective and
responsive to the aspirations of the African
people.
It includes the progress we make on gender
equality and women’s empowerment.
Last, are the examples of work by regional
economic communities on infrastructure
development, economic integration, free
movement of people, as well as on democracy,
human rights, peace and security.
Across the continent, there is progress in
silencing the guns.
More must be done to achieve this goal
faster.
The fight against terrorism remains a
challenge, and we must all unite to defeat this
scourge that threatens our collective security.
It is with much concern that we learn that
sporadic fighting continues in South Sudan.
The people of South Sudan need peace.
We again call on all the parties involved
to honour the agreement, in order to ensure
peace, reconciliation, healing and justice.
It is clear that globally we are entering
turbulent times.
For example, the very country to whom our
people were taken as slaves during the Trans-
Atlantic slave trade, have decided to ban
refugees from some of our countries. What do
we do about this? Indeed, this is one of the
greatest challenges and tests to our unity and
solidarity.
The Year of Youth must provide a basis for
advancing the social contract, Agenda 2063,
between our generations and the younger
and future generations, for the benefit of all
Africans.
Let us imagine and create the Africa we
want to live in, so that we can bequeath
a united and better Africa to future
generations.
The countries that made the start to open their
skies to fellow African countries, like Rwanda,
Ethiopia, Kenya and South Africa, are helping to
lead the way in Africa claiming its airspace. We
must encourage all countries to join them to open
their airspaces to all African countries.
DIPLOMACYMULTILATERALISM AND SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY
Chad's Foreign
Minister, Moussa
Faki Mahamat, was
elected the new
Chairperson of the
African Union (AU)
Commission.
Leaders of AU member nations elected
Moussa Faki Mahamat on Monday,
30 January 2017, in a heavily contested
vote from five candidates vying for the
post during the 28th AU Summit at the
continental body’s headquarters in Addis
Ababa. Mahamat replaces South Africa’s
Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who decided
not to seek a second four-year term.
Mahamat was Prime Minister of Chad
from 2003 to 2005. He has also been a
president of Chad’s Economic, Social and
creating jobs
across South Africa
DIPLOMACY LET US CREATE THE AFRICA WE WANT TO LIVE IN
i
Cultural Council from 2007 to 2008, and had
served as its Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The election of the AU Commission
Chairperson was postponed after no
candidate managed to secure the required
number of votes to win the race during the
election held at the last AU Summit in July
2016. In order to be declared a winner, a
candidate should obtain at least two-thirds
of the vote, which is 36 votes. However,
after three rounds of voting, no candidate
was successful during last July’s voting.
Mahamat won with 39 votes. The Kenyan
Foreign Minister, Amina Mohamed, a
strong candidate to replace Dlamini Zuma,
congratulated the new AU Commission
Chairperson and pledged to work with him
for a better Africa.
Ghanaian Kwesi Quartet was elected
Deputy Chairperson of the AU Commission.
SAnews.gov.za-NNN

18 19
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Celebrating Africa Day on
a continent with hope
By President Jacob Zuma
The celebration of Africa Day is an affirmation of
our love for our continent and our commitment to
ensure that Africa succeeds in all her endeavours
.
O
n 25 May, we
commemorated
the founding of the
Organisation of African
Unity (OAU), which
championed unity and
the struggles for the decolonisation of our
beautiful continent. We also marked the
formation of its successor, the African Union
(AU), which was launched on 9 July 2002 in
Durban.
The celebration of Africa Day is an
affirmation of our love for our continent
and our commitment to ensure that Africa
succeeds in all her endeavours. On this day,
we take stock of progress we have made in
building an Africa whose inhabitants have
hope for a better and brighter future, an Africa
without despair.
This year, we celebrated this day under
the theme: "The Year of OR Tambo: Building
a Better Africa and a Better World". The
celebration was in honour of our liberation
stalwart and selfless hero, the former
President of the African National Congress
(ANC), Oliver Reginald Tambo, who would
have turned 100 years old this year, had he
lived.
A selfless Pan-Africanist, he led the ANC
during a difficult period in exile, and shaped
this country’s foreign policy through forging
strong links and solidarity with many countries
on the continent and the world. President
OR Tambo and President Nelson Mandela
attended the founding conference of the OAU.
President OR Tambo gave us a clear direction
on our relationship with Africa and the world at
the First Congress of the Angolan ruling party,
the MPLA, in Luanda in 1977.
He stated: “We seek to live in peace with
our neighbours and the peoples of the world
in conditions of equality, mutual respect and
equal advantage”.
A key milestone for Africa this year is the
celebration of the Golden Jubilee of Ghana.
Ghana was instrumental in leading the
decolonisation agenda for the continent and
the promotion of African unity.
On 24 May 1963, 32 independent African
states and leaders of liberation movements
of countries that were still fighting for their
freedom, met in the Ethiopian capital, Addis
Ababa, to find ways to unite the continent.
In that historic meeting, President Kwame
Nkrumah declared:
“We meet here today not as Ghanaians,
Guineans, Egyptians, Algerians, Moroccans,
Malians, Liberians, Congolese or Nigerians,
but as Africans.”
Indeed we are one people with one destiny.
We are grateful to our forebears for their
commitment to the liberation of every inch of
African soil.
This was stated boldly by President
Nkrumah who said at the dawn of the
independence of Ghana that: “Our
independence is meaningless unless it is
linked up with the total liberation of Africa’’.
The OAU Liberation Committee worked
tirelessly to take this vision forward, until
the liberation of Namibia and South Africa.
However, the mission is not complete.
The people of Western Sahara are still
yearning for freedom and self-determination
that the rest of the continent enjoys. We
must do everything possible to ensure that
they too are liberated. Africa has made a lot
of progress since the formation of the OAU.
The promotion of democracy on the continent
has taken root. This is visible through the
democratic elections that take place at the
end of terms of governments, which have led
to peaceful transitions from one government
to another in many countries on the continent.
The zero tolerance for coups d’ ètat and
the action that is taken against leaders who
refuse to accept the outcomes of democratic
elections by AU leaders have set a new tone
on the continent with regard to promoting
constitutional changes to governments.
The AU programme, the African Peer
Review Mechanism, remains a key
instrument of promoting democracy and
good governance, and is one of the key
innovations of our continent. The loss of life
and displacement of thousands of people
who remain refugees in a decolonised Africa,
remain of serious concern and require more
effort from AU member states. As the AU,
we have thus committed ourselves to ending
conflicts and silencing the guns on the
continent by the year 2020, so that our people
can live in peace.
The challenge of terrorism and extremism
in some parts of our continent is another
key concern of the AU and enjoys ongoing
attention. Working with partners in other
regions beyond our continent, this goal of
peace and stability in every corner of the
continent can be achieved.
South Africa continues to humbly contribute
troops for peace-making, peacekeeping and
in mediation efforts on our continent. We are
proud of our soldiers who are always ready to
be deployed for peace.
Africa has made progress at social level as
well. The continent has produced acclaimed
authors, academics, musicians, performers,
poets and scientists who are respected all
over the world. We have also produced
outstanding political leaders, some of whom
have played a leading role on the world
stage, including at the United Nations (UN) as
secretaries-general.
Indeed, we continue to make progress in
building a better Africa. As Africa changes,
so too must the instruments of global
governance. That is why we continue to call
for the reform of the UN Security Council
(UNSC) to include Africa.
The membership of the UNSC must
reflect the fact that Africa is now made up of
independent countries and not colonies. The
whole system of international governance
should thus be much more democratic and
rules-based. While such progress is being
made, we also acknowledge that we still have
a long road to travel towards full economic
emancipation on the continent. A number of
countries are growing above 6% per annum
and foreign direct investment inflows continue
to rise. However, serious socio-economic
challenges remain in many countries.
Africa has a plan to meet the developmental
challenges, the AU’s Agenda 2063. It provides
a framework to address unemployment, in
particular youth unemployment, inequalities
within economies, jobless economic growth
as well as the need for peace and security.
To address unemployment and poverty,
initiatives aimed at boosting economic growth
are critical. In this regard, Africa has prioritised
regional integration as well as investment in
infrastructure over the past decade.
The infrastructure development programme
is championed by African heads of state and
government. We want to produce modern
transport and telecommunications networks
connecting Africa. We need roads, bridges,
railway lines, trains and modern aviation
systems. Africa must not be left behind in
the fourth industrial revolution. We all have a
responsibility to ensure that this time, Africa is
definitely not left behind.
I was given the privilege to lead the
Presidential Infrastructure Championing
Initiative for the AU, and to champion the
North-South Corridor, focussing on road and
rail, under the auspices of the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development. Some progress has
been registered in some key North-South
Corridor projects, such as the Grand Inga
Hydro Project, the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project Phase 2, the Beit Bridge Border Post
and linked roads.
The Continental Free Trade Area
negotiations are also underway, which will
bring together a market of millions of people
and help boost intra-Africa trade.
Within our Southern African Development
Community region, we are actively promoting
industrialisation, agriculture, tourism and
other key sectors to boost economic growth.
We also need to move beyond principle to
action as Africa with regard to the beneficiation
of our minerals. Africans need to derive
meaningful benefit from the minerals that
are extracted from the belly of the Earth on
our rich continent. All these programmes are
important and with effective implementation,
we will achieve the better Africa we envisage.
Africa has a young population and a growing
labour force, which is a highly valuable asset
in an aging world. Our biggest challenge is
that unemployment among the African youth
is significantly high and it will increase as our
population increases.
The AU Heads of State and Government
decided at the 26th Summit in Addis Ababa
in January last year to devote 2017 to
the theme: “Harnessing the Demographic
Dividend through Investments in the Youth”.
In our own country, we continue to invest
in education and skills development and to
improve the general living conditions of our
people in general and the youth in particular,
as an investment towards the future of our
continent.
As the AU, we are also advocating softer
borders to enable better movement of people
and goods within the continent. The promotion
of legal migration within the continent is
thus important, including easier movement
to enable tourism, skills exchanges and
business and business cooperation.
For Africa to develop, she needs resources.
It is of serious concern therefore, that billions
of dollars are taken away from the continent
illegally by multinational corporations. These
illicit financial flows deprive Africa of the
much-needed economic resources to uplift
her economies in order to provide basic
services, build infrastructure and provide
basic healthcare and access to affordable and
quality education and other social services.
South Africa remains committed to
continue supporting efforts and initiatives
by the international community to combat
these financial crimes committed against our
continent.
Africa Day for South Africa is about
celebrating the cosmopolitan nature of our
country. South Africans have always lived
in peace and harmony with brothers and
sisters from other African countries in many
communities.
South Africa has always been home
to nationals from sister countries from
Mozambique, Rwanda, Zambia, Zimbabwe,
Nigeria, Democratic Republic of Congo,
Republic of Congo, Tanzania, Burundi,
Somalia, Ethiopia, Lesotho, Tanzania,
Namibia, Malawi, Swaziland, Botswana,
Algeria, Uganda, Kenya and others, even at
the height of apartheid oppression.
They have lived in peace and friendship
with South Africans and should continue to
do so. We urge all communities to isolate
criminal elements whose behaviour causes
tensions at times among our peoples.
They must unite against serious crimes
such as human trafficking, child prostitution,
forced prostitution and others, which have
become serious challenges in our country.
Perpetrators of such crimes must be
reported to the police, regardless of nationality.
We also urge employers to stop causing
tensions among our peoples, through
employing illegal immigrants. The South
African Government continues to work
tirelessly to remove all these sources of
tension, working with our people.
We are truly happy indeed to celebrate
Africa Day in an Africa that has a clear
vision of the future. While serious challenges
remain, much progress is being made, which
makes ours a continent of hope. We thank our
international partners for supporting Africa’s
march to the future.
The people of Western Sahara are still yearning for
freedom and self-determination that the rest of the
continent enjoys
. We must do everything possible
to ensure that they too are liberated.
DIPLOMACY CELEBRATING AFRICA DAY ON A CONTINENT WITH HOPE DIPLOMACYCELEBRATING AFRICA DAY ON A CONTINENT WITH HOPE
The Year of OR Tambo:

20 21
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Internationalisation and
social cohesion
By Luwellyn Landers
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
“Independence is only a prelude to a new and more involved struggle for the
right to conduct our own economic and social affairs; to construct our society
according to our aspirations
.”
O
n 25 May, we
commemorated the
formation of the
Organisation of African
Unity (OAU), which has
been transformed to our
present-day African Union (AU).
Our forbears such as Kwame Nkrumah did
not just envision a united continent which is at
peace with itself, but worked hard to promote
social cohesion and an internationalist
approach to development. During his OAU
inaugural speech, this iconic leader shared
his vision of an independent Africa and stated:
“Independence is only a prelude to a new
and more involved struggle for the right to
conduct our own economic and social affairs;
to construct our society according to our
aspirations.”
These aspirations have not been lost
nor forgotten; in fact, they are embodied in
Agenda 2063 which builds on these legacies.
The AU’s Agenda 2063 is therefore a shared
vision that seeks to enhance socio-economic
transformation of our continent to improve the
living conditions of all its citizenry.
We aspire to an African continent which is
inclusive and influential on the global stage. In
this regard, South Africa’s foreign policy was
shaped by proponents of social cohesion,
Pan-Africanism and internationalism such
as OR Tambo. Accordingly, President Jacob
Zuma has declared 2017 as the Year of
OR Tambo who would have turned 100 years
old this year.
President Tambo was also passionate about
education and championed the establishment
of educational institutions which would impart
knowledge to young South Africans in exile.
He established relations with institutions of
learning in various countries in order for them
to accommodate our young patriots who
joined the struggle against the evil system of
apartheid.
When the ruling party assumed leadership in
1994, our primary role was to reconnect with
the world in order to grow this country as an
active global citizen that occupies a rightful
place in a globalised and interdependent
world. This undertaking has yielded
significant results, especially in growing
the economy and building the reputation of
South Africa as a formidable figure in the
international community. As such, we have
been bequeathed with a number of leadership
roles, which have seen us grow in stature and
influence.
This marked an era of commencing to
rebuild our educational system and reverse
the apartheid era structure, which was
exclusive by design and robbed our people
of opportunities to fully realise their potential.
The exchange of intellectual ideas and
information-sharing give our students and
country a competitive edge. We can ably
compete and interact in a variety of forums
such as in the fields of science, culture,
economics and many more as our students
would be better equipped.
The importance of internationalisation
cannot be overstated, especially in aiding
Africa’s integration agenda. The premise
of Africa being central to our foreign policy
necessitates that our people take pride in
their collective identity and work together as
Africans in pursuit of a shared destiny.
In essence, we need to share expertise
and knowledge, particularly with other higher
education institutions on the continent. For
us to realise Agenda 2063, we must invest in
skills development and innovation in science,
technology, maritime, engineering and other
scare skills.
This has been in part a focus area of our
foreign policy, particularly in supporting
countries emerging from conflicts through
capacity-building and reconstruction
programmes (post-conflict reconstruction
and development) in partnership with South
African higher learning institutions.
A case in point was the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation’s
(DIRCO) partnership with the University
of South Africa and the Government of
South Sudan in providing Public Service
Administration courses to its public service
as that country emerged from civil war. This
greatly contributed to the building of their
institutions and rebuilding their country.
This has not been an isolated case; we
have received numerous requests for bilateral
cooperation with a number of higher learning
institutions to partner with South African
universities. This is in recognition of not only
our capable institutions but also the need to
share knowledge and expertise.
In this regard, this cooperation partnership
in education also finds expression in the
Southern African Development Community
(SADC) strategic documents such as the
SADC Protocol on Education and Training.
South Africa is a proud signatory to this
protocol, which paves the way for educational
institutions in southern Africa to deepen
cooperation.
It is within this context that South African
universities, in addition to local students,
admit students from neighbouring countries.
The SADC Protocol therefore encourages
institutions of higher learning in the southern
African region to:
• reserve at least 5% of admissions for
students from SADC nations
• facilitate the mobility of their staff and
students within the region for purposes
of study, research, teaching and other
pursuits relating to education and
training
• treat SADC students as local
students for purposes of fees and
accommodation
• establish institutional partnerships
with other institutions of higher
learning in SADC
• encourage the establishment of
collaboration agreements between
their components.
In the context of the broader South, we
supported and contributed towards the
establishment of the Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa (BRICS) Think-Tank
Council in 2013.
The council provides an important and
interregional platform for academia and
business leaders to share expertise and
knowledge in various fields.
We believe that international relations are
not the exclusive domain of government and
as such, this council complements the work
of the South African Council of International
Relations (SACOIR). SACOIR provides
advice to the Executive on issues that affect
South Africa in the international sphere.
Moreover and at national level, our
endeavours in this regard are guided by the
Government’s apex policy document, the
National Development Plan (NDP), as well as
the National Plan for Higher Education (NPHE
of 2001), which was published by the South
African Department of Education.
The NDP requires us to build an educational
system that will enable us to address the
challenge of poverty in our communities,
thereby contributing towards a resilient
economy.
Furthermore the NPHE policy framework
seeks to build research capacity both in
South Africa and in the rest of the African
continent by, among others, encouraging
South Africa’s higher education institutions to
recruit and train postgraduate students from
the continent as well as other developing
countries.
Most importantly and directly linked to
internationalism, the plan also recognises
the role international students can play
in enriching the life experiences of local
students on South African campuses, thus
proposing that their presence will “enrich
the educational experience of South African
students and broaden their understanding of
the social, cultural, economic and political ties
that underpin the people in the SADC”.
The NPHE further addresses the need by
South African higher education institutions
to constantly strive for employment equity in
their campuses by recruiting black and female
staff from the rest of the African continent.
Moreover, it will promote multiculturalism
and multiracialism, which will contribute
to social cohesion not only among South
Africans but with our fellow brothers and
sisters from the continent and elsewhere.
One should, however, also recognise the
challenges that we are faced with with regard
to the funding of education in South Africa.
Government is working together with partners
and various stakeholders to find a solution to
this matter of national importance.
DIRCO's missions abroad are hard at
work in trying to source opportunities for our
youth through, among others, exchange and
scholarship programmes. We have identified
a variety of scholarship opportunities which a
significant number of South African youth are
benefitting from and others are in the process
of being finalised.
We have students studying in countries
such as Ireland, Cuba, Japan, China and
many more. It is important that we utilise
our institutions of higher learning as centres
to achieve and promote social cohesion
between our people. The benefits for our
country will contribute positively in placing
our learners and professionals in a position
where they are at par with their counterparts
globally.
20 21Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
The premise of Africa being central to our foreign policy necessitates that our
people take pride in their collective identity and work together as Africans in
pursuit of a shared destiny.
DIPLOMACY INTERNATIONALISATION AND SOCIAL COHESION DIPLOMACYINTERNATIONALISATION AND SOCIAL COHESION

22 23
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
S
outh Africa continues to
consolidate ties with its
partners in the BRICS
(Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa) formation
through a series of
diplomatic engagements aimed at solidifying
the place of BRICS in our foreign policy.
One such engagement saw us hosting
the Brazilian Minister of External Relations,
Aloysio Nunes Ferreira, recently.
The visit was a reaffirmation of the strong
bonds of friendship that exist between the two
countries.
South Africa and Brazil enjoy strong
relations at bilateral and multilateral levels.
In April, we hosted Chinese Vice Premier
Liu Yandong on the occasion of the launch of
the South Africa-China high-level People-to-
People Exchange Mechanism (PPEM).
The PPEM was held with the objective of
deepening mutual understanding between
the peoples of South Africa and China and
to enhance people-to-people exchanges
and cooperation in areas of, among
others, culture, international relations,
education, communication, health, science
and technology, sports, tourism, women
South Africa
strengthens
ties with BRICS
partners
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
BRICS has become a credible
and constructive grouping
in our quest to forge a new
paradigm of global relations
and cooperation
. At the core
of the BRICS partnership is
our shared vision of intensifying
development, integration and
industrialisation
.
affairs and youth. In February, we marked
the 25th anniversary of the establishment
of formal diplomatic relations between
South Africa and Russia. South  Africa
and Russia share common values in
terms of their respect for the rule of law
in international relations, multilateralism,
the central role of the United Nations
(UN) in global governance, the primary role of
the UN Security Council in the maintenance of
global peace and security as well as respect
for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
states.
It was significant that this landmark
occasion of the 25th anniversary coincided
with the conclusion of a 90-day mutual
Visa Waiver Agreement for ordinary South
African and Russian passport holders. The
coming into operation of the agreement will
give impetus to increased people-to-people
contact as well as better prospects for growth
in two-way tourism.
In August 2016, when Indian Prime Minister
Narendra Modi was in South Africa on an
Official Visit, the two countries agreed to
enhance cooperation and coordination within
BRICS with a view to improve global political
and economic governance, and to redouble
the voice of emerging markets in international
affairs.
South Africa joined the important BRICS
bloc of emerging economies in December
2010, in line with our country’s foreign policy
to strengthen South-South relations. We
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA STRENGTHENS TIES WITH BRICS PARTNERS DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA STRENGTHENS TIES WITH BRICS PARTNERS
are earnestly preparing for the next BRICS
Summit, to be held in September in Xiamen,
China, under the theme: “BRICS: Stronger
Partnership for a Brighter Future”.
The next summit will focus on the following
areas:
• deepening BRICS cooperation for
common development
• enhancing global governance to jointly
meet challenges
•  carrying out people-to-people exchanges
to support BRICS cooperation
• making institutional improvements and
building broader partnerships.
These identified areas are aligned to South
Africa’s recent engagements with its BRICS
partner countries, particularly in the areas of
reforming institutions of global governance
and taking practical steps to enhance people-
to-people exchanges.
BRICS has become a credible and
constructive grouping in our quest to
forge a new paradigm of global relations
and cooperation. At the core of the
BRICS partnership is our shared vision of
intensifying development, integration and
industrialisation. The Cairo Review of Global
The Cairo Review of Global Affairs noted in one
article that: “The BRICS nations not only reflect the
shifting trends of the new global economic order
but are increasingly shaping it”.
Affairs noted in one article that: “The BRICS
nations not only reflect the shifting trends
of the new global economic order but are
increasingly shaping it”. South Africa is at
the centre of these shifting trends and is
consolidating its relations with BRICS partners
as we seek to realise our foreign policy vision
of “championing an African continent which is
prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial,
non-sexist and united and which aspires to a
world that is just and equitable”.

24 25
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
In April 2017, a high-level People-to-People Exchange
Mechanism (PPEM) between South Africa and the
People's Republic of China was launched in Pretoria.
The PPEM aims to enhance mutual trust, friendship
and strategic partnership and further deepen
cooperation between the two countries, especially
in the areas of culture, education, communication,
health, technology, sports, tourism, women
advancement and youth. On 25 April, a cultural
evening was held at the State Theatre in Pretoria,
which featured performances by South African and
Chinese artists, including the Chinese Kung Fu and
Shaolin culture, as well as an Acrobatic, Singing and
Dancing Troupe from China. The theme of the event
was: “China and South Africa Hand in Hand”.

26 27
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
remains valid and relevant to the goals
we face, of building inclusive economies,
ensuring peace and stability in the region and
advancing the socio-economic development
of our peoples.
We are bound together by a strategic
resource, the Indian Ocean. It possesses a
variety of natural resources that are vital for
the well-being of our people, safe trade and
environmental stability.
Half of the world’s trade travels through this
region.
The IORA’s vast coastline also holds two-
thirds of the world’s oil reserves, carries half
of the world’s container ships and one-third of
the bulk cargo traffic.
The region also produces goods and
services worth over one trillion US dollars,
with intra-trade amounting to some
US$777 billion. This is a highly significant
grouping indeed.
Given that we have the ocean as a strategic
resource, it is only natural that we should
invest in the Ocean Economy.
It will help us to diversify our economies
from heavy reliance on mineral production
and consumption.
Gender empowerment is a key priority for
the association. We must therefore ensure
that our programmes and interactions also
empower women, especially through the
fledgling small and medium ocean economy
enterprises.
The position of IORA in supporting the
Ocean Economy is in line with that of the
African Union (AU).
The AU has declared 2015 to 2025 as the
Decade of African Seas and Oceans, and the
Blue Economy is now officially referred to
as the new frontier of Africa’s Renaissance.
IORA bound together by
a strategic resource
By President Jacob Zuma
Given that we have the ocean as a strategic resource, it is only natural that we
should invest in the Ocean Economy.
S
outh Africa is very proud
to belong to the Indian
Ocean Rim Association
(IORA) and to have been a
founding member.
This year’s celebration
of the 20th anniversary of the association is
an important tribute to the memory of former
President Nelson Mandela.
He was one of the pioneers of the
organisation and believed in its importance
and role in uniting nations that were bound
together by the Indian Ocean in particular,
and South-South cooperation in general.
He saw value in bringing us together for the
socio-economic development of the people of
our region.
The IORA remains significant because it is
the foremost entity that brings together Africa,
the Middle East, Asia and Australasia, through
the Indian Ocean. The vision of President
Mandela and other founding leaders still
Let us commit ourselves to making the Indian Ocean
Rim a zone of peace and stability.
DIPLOMACYIORA BOUND TOGETHER BY A STRATEGIC RESOURCEDIPLOMACY IORA BOUND TOGETHER BY A STRATEGIC RESOURCE
i
In March 2017, President Jacob Zuma
attended the Indian Ocean Rim Association
(IORA) Leaders’ Summit in Jakarta,
Indonesia. Speaking at the conclusion of the
summit, he said the IORA had celebrated
a significant milestone in the history of the
association, namely 20 years of existence.
“With the adoption and signing of the
IORA Concord and its Action Plan for
implementation that the Council of Ministers
will take forward, we are well placed to take
IORA into the next decade.
“The concord has greatly elevated the
status of the association. We look forward
to all the members signing the document in
due course.
“South Africa welcomes the key outcome
of the Business Summit, which was the
declaration signed between the chambers
of commerce and business communities of
IORA member states.
“Their support and involvement is critical to
us achieving our goals of greater economic
cooperation that are enshrined in the IORA
Charter. “We look forward to welcoming
members of IORA to South Africa when we
assume the IORA Chair from Indonesia.”
The IORA is an international organisation
with 21 member states: Australia,
Bangladesh, Comoros, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Kenya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mauritius, Mozambique, Oman, Seychelles,
Singapore, Somalia, South Africa,
Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, United Arab
Emirates and Yemen.
IORA was formally launched at the first
Ministerial Meeting in Mauritius from 6 to
7 March 1997. This meeting adopted
the IORA Charter, and determined the
administrative and procedural framework
within which the organisation would
develop.
i
South Africa has decided to actively
promote economic development from the
oceans since 2014. It launched Operation
Phakisa Ocean Economy, bringing
together business, labour, academia and
government to intensively work together
to develop a national programme to further
develop and expand the country’s ocean
economy.
It is estimated that the Blue Economy
in South Africa could contribute around
US$13 billion to the country’s gross
domestic product and create a million jobs
by 2033. The priority sectors identified within
this programme are marine manufacturing
and marine transport, aquaculture, oil and
gas exploration, marine protection and
governance.
To date, the overall progress of South
Africa’s Ocean Economy drive includes
unlocking investments amounting to more
than R7 billion in the Ocean Economy.
This has created close to 7 000 jobs in
various sectors.
It is an essential part of Africa’s 50-year
industrialisation and development plan,
Agenda 2063.
In South Africa, we have also embraced the
Ocean Economy, because it has the potential
to contribute more than US$13 billion to our
economy and create approximately one
million jobs by 2033.
Our Operation Phakisa Ocean Economy
programme, modelled on Malaysia’s Big
Fast Results economic implementation
programme, is already bearing fruit.
It is unlocking the potential of the oceans
and creating jobs, generating investment,
developing our infrastructure and protecting
our ocean space.
We look forward to cooperating with
partners in IORA in harnessing benefits from
the Ocean Economy programme.
Acts of terrorism, contested maritime spaces,
piracy, drug trafficking and human trafficking,
among others, remain issues of concern in
the region.
Let us commit ourselves to making the
Indian Ocean Rim a zone of peace and
stability.
We should also not lose sight of the need
to continue the fight against global inequality
and economic exclusion, which also pose
serious threats to peace and stability in IORA.
South Africa takes over the Chair from
Indonesia later this year, and we are
committed to work closely with member states
and our dialogue and other partners, to take
the IORA forward.
We will be building on a firm foundation laid
by President Joko Widodo and other IORA
leaders.

28 29
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Africa never stops. The world’s second largest
continent has plenty of room for growth. There’s
an energy here you won’t find anywhere else. As
host to many of the world’s growing economies,
we’re proudly playing our part in the global arena.
Let’s take our continent forward, together.
standardbank.com/neverstop
Authorised Financial services and registered credit provider (NCRCP15).
The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited (Reg. No. 1962/000738/06). Moving Forward is a trademark of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited. SBSA 243920-10 /16
243920 Quiet A3.indd   1 2016/10/07   1:27 PM

30 31
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
The struggle for
independence of Western
Sahara from Morocco
By Luwellyn Landers
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Throughout his life, OR Tambo was a staunch
supporter and ardent campaigner for the
Western Sahara cause
.
DIPLOMACY THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO
31Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  30 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
DIPLOMACYTHE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO

32 33
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
people’s right to self-determination. However,
the Polisario Front accepted the settlement
proposals which were presented by the UN,
in line with the African Union (AU) Peace
Plan, with the hope of ending the stalemate.
In 1991, the UN established the UN Mission
for the Referendum on Western Sahara
(MINURSO) and the Polisario ended its
armed conflict in lieu of the referendum.
Democratic South Africa has always
supported the decisions of the UN
(referendum for self-determination) and AU,
including the latter’s appointment of former
President Joaquim Chissano as Special
Envoy for Western Sahara.
It is a known fact that Morocco continues to
violate international law and the civil, political
and socio-economic rights of the Saharawi
people, including, freedom of expression,
association, land and self-determination.
The refusal by Morocco to implement the
UN and the AU decisions on the Western
Sahara referendum is in itself a human
rights violation. This is compounded by the
continued exploration and exploitation of
natural resources in the occupied territories
while the majority of the Saharawi people
languish in poverty.
During his address at a High-Level Event
on the sidelines of the UN Human Rights
Council on 1 March 2017, the AU’s Special
Envoy on Western Sahara, former President
Chissano stated: “Saharawis who express
pro-independence views, who work on human
rights activities, or who defend the territory’s
natural resources against plunder continue
to face a particular pattern of harassment,
political imprisonment and judicial abuse.”
This is in contravention of the December
2016 ruling by the Court of Justice of the
European Union (EU), which stated, among
others, that agreements between the EU and
Morocco on trade liberalisation will exclude
resources of the occupied territories of
Western Sahara. The African Commission
on Human and People’s Rights and the UN
Security Council as well as other international
human rights organisations have also
condemned this state of affairs.
South Africa’s support for the freedom of
the Saharawis dates back to our own struggle
against apartheid. Our own experiences
of struggle, international solidarity and
transition are what inform our policy position
on the Western Sahara conflict.
When addressing the 53rd UN General
Assembly, former President Nelson Mandela
said:
“We also look forward to the resolution of
the outstanding issues of Western Sahara
… convinced that it is possible to take these
matters off the world agenda on the basis of
settlements that meet the interests of all the
peoples concerned.”
Since we took a decision to recognise the
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR),
South Africa has continued to render support
to and lobby for the Saharawi cause on all
“Saharawis who express pro-independence views,
who work on human rights activities, or who defend
the territory’s natural resources against plunder
continue to face a particular pattern of harassment,
political imprisonment and judicial abuse.”
T
he year 2017 has been
declared the Year of Oliver
Reginald Tambo. OR Tambo
was the longest-serving
African National Congress
(ANC) President and shaped
South Africa’s current foreign policy and
the principles of international solidarity
with oppressed nations, including Western
Sahara. This international solidarity is now
an integral part of our foreign policy.
Throughout his life, OR was a staunch
supporter and ardent campaigner for the
Western Sahara cause. In his address to the
Heads of State and Governments of the Non-
Aligned Countries in 1979 in Havana, Cuba,
he said:
“The experience of the people of Western
Sahara is the first kind of experience that
we can think of since the struggle for
decolonisation started in Africa. No African
country that we know of has done what has
been done to the people of Western Sahara
… We have no doubt that the struggle of the
people of Western Sahara will be victorious.”
Morocco’s territorial claims to Western
Sahara date back to the late 1950s. After
gaining independence from France in 1956,
Morocco embraced an expansionist ideology
that sought to create a “Greater Morocco”.
As the Spanish were preparing to leave
Western Sahara in the early 1970s, Morocco
turned its attention to Western Sahara. Since
the mid-1960s, the United Nations (UN) had
denounced the colonial domination of the
then Spanish Sahara, and to allow its people
to exercise their right to self-determination.
However, the conclusion of the Madrid Accord
in 1975 between Spain and Morocco ensured
Spain’s withdrawal from Western Sahara and
provided an opportunity for Morocco to claim,
annex and invade parts of Western Sahara.
Inevitably, this provoked the resistance
war by the people of Western Sahara
through the Polisario Front.
The rest is history.
In 1975, the International Court of Justice
in The Hague issued a ruling that neither
Morocco nor Mauritania had any right to
occupy the territory of Western Sahara.
In 1983, the Organisation of African Unity
(OAU) adopted, among others, the Peace
Plan that sought to bring to an end the armed
conflict as Polisario continued to fight for its
South Africa’s support for the freedom of the
Saharawis dates back to our own struggle against
apartheid. Our own experiences of struggle,
international solidarity and transition are what inform
our policy position on the Western Sahara conflict.
DIPLOMACY THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO DIPLOMACYTHE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO
United Nations peacekeepers mark stones as
part of practical training on unexploded ordnance
identification and marking

34 35
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
multilateral platforms such as the Southern
African Development Community (SADC);
AU; UN; G77; Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa; and Non-Aligned Movement,
among others.
We have also provided technical and
humanitarian assistance to the SADR through
our African Renaissance Fund.
Through the Department of Arts and
Culture, South Africa has supported the
Western Saharawi Film Festival and also
signed an agreement with the Government of
the SADR in the fields of arts.
Earlier this year, President Jacob Zuma
hosted President Brahim Ghali of the SADR
during his Working Visit to South Africa and
reaffirmed our solidarity and unity with the
Saharawi people. The ANC statement of
8 January 2017 was unequivocal on our future
engagements and position on the resolution
of the Western Sahara issue: “We remain
unwavering in our support for an independent
and free Western Sahara.
"We shall continue to offer concrete support
and solidarity for the programmes of the
Polisario Front".
As a government, we welcome the decision
by the UN to extend MINURSO’s mandate to
include monitoring and reporting on human
rights developments.
We call for the return of its civilian staff
following their expulsion by Morocco. By mid-
March 2017, of the approximately 80 staff
members, only 25 had returned to discharge
their mission. "We will continue to utilise our
membership of the Geneva Support Group
for Western Sahara to mobilise international
support. This forum consists of the permanent
representatives to the UN Human Rights
Council from like-minded countries as well
as a member of the American Association of
Jurists.
We will continue to mobilise the international
community to call for the expediting of the
referendum on self-determination.
Furthermore, we will continue to assist
and share our experiences in the peaceful
settlement of conflict because any further
delay in finding a lasting solution has
consequences for peace and security in
Africa.
Morocco left the OAU in 1984 in protest
against the OAU’s recognition of the SADR.
In 2016, it decided that it wanted to become
part of the AU.
South Africa together with mainly SADC
countries, Algeria and Uganda opposed its
application on the basis that it needed to
first comply with articles three and four of
the AU Constitutive Act, i.e. recognition of
the SADR and its inalienable right to self-
determination.
"We remain unwavering in our support for an
independent and free Western Sahara. We shall
continue to offer concrete support and solidarity for
the programmes of the Polisario Front
."
The majority of the AU supported Morocco’s
application even though there was still no
indication that it’s position on the issue of
independence and self-determination had
changed. The majority of AU member states
believed that it would be better to persuade
Morocco from within the AU.
However, it remains to be seen whether
Morocco will abide by the provisions of the AU
Constitutive Act, particularly articles three and
four, which promote sovereignty and mutual
and peaceful coexistence of members of the
AU.
All indications are that Morocco’s decision
to be part of the AU was not an overnight
Damascian change in favour of the Saharawi’s
right to self-determination. Rather it was a
tactical one, precipitated by the December
2016 decision of the EU Court of Justice, in
which Morocco wants to use this multilateral
forum to argue its position and win the AU
over to its position of non-recognition of the
SADR.
The admission of Morocco to the
AU presents new opportunities for the
 international solidarity movement in support
DIPLOMACY
THE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO DIPLOMACYTHE STRUGGLE FOR INDEPENDENCE OF WESTERN SAHARA FROM MOROCCO
of the Western Sahara’s right to self-
determination.
As governments, we must seize the
moment and ensure that the admission of
Morocco propels us to expedite the resolution
of the Western Sahara impasse within the
AU. To this end, President Zuma stated in his
State of the Nation Address in February 2017:
“… we hope that the admission of Morocco
to the AU should serve as a catalyst to resolve
the Western Sahara issue”.
The current environment also requires
the international solidarity movement
(governments and civil society) to work more
closely and with greater synergy and energy.
We must review, change and strengthen
our tactics and strategies to address these
current changes.
For example, the SADR needs
to drastically increase its Friends of
Polosario Campaign internationally and it
needs to learn from the successes of
organisations and campaigns such as the
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions and even
South Africa’s International Anti-Apartheid
Movement.
Failure to move with speed to resolve this
conflict is detrimental to the well-being and
the needs of the people of Western Sahara,
Africans and the global community.

36 37
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
20 years of the Red Fort
Declaration: A cause for
celebration
T
he year 2017 marks the 20th
anniversary of the signing
of the Red Fort Declaration,
which laid the foundation
for the Strategic Partnership
between South Africa and
India. The year 2017 is also particularly
special for India as it celebrates 70 years of
independence from British colonial rule.
India played a leading role in South Africa’s
fight for freedom and democracy and was
at the forefront of isolating the apartheid
government at international level. Following
the dismantling of apartheid, full diplomatic
relations with India were restored on
22 November 1993. In 1997, the first visit by
a South African head of state to India took
place when President Nelson Mandela and
Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda entrenched
the strong historical relationship between the
two countries with the signing of the Red Fort
Declaration. This visit was followed by several
high-level visits: President Jacob Zuma
visited India in 2010 and President Pratibha
Patil visited South Africa in 2012. President
Zuma attended the Third India-Africa Forum
Summit, held in New Delhi in October 2015,
and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid an
Official Visit to South Africa in July 2016.
South Africa and India share a dynamic
history with both countries having produced
two of the 20th century’s greatest icons, Nelson
Mandela and Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi’s stay
in South Africa from 1893 to 1914 not only
had an impact on resistance to the apartheid
regime but also influenced the political path of
India towards independence as well as other
liberation movements in southern Africa and
across the world. India and South Africa also
share close cultural ties through the Indian
South Africa and India share a dynamic history
with both countries having produced two of the
20th century’s greatest icons, Nelson Mandela
and Mahatma Gandhi
.
By Dr Anil Sooklal
Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
DIPLOMACY20 YEARS OF THE RED FORT DECLARATION: A CAUSE FOR CELEBRATIONDIPLOMACY 20 YEARS OF THE RED FORT DECLARATION: A CAUSE FOR CELEBRATION
community who first arrived in South Africa
in the 19th century as indentured labourers
to work on sugarcane plantations. The Indian
Diaspora has contributed significantly to the
democratisation and economy of South Africa
and forms an integral part of South Africa’s
vibrant rainbow nation.
The bond between South Africa and India
is not only entrenched through a shared
history and people but also its common
vision on a wide range of global issues and
domestic challenges. As two leading nations
of the global South, South Africa and India
share relations both in structured bilateral
form, as well as multilateral groupings, be it
in the trilateral grouping of India, Brazil and
South Africa (IBSA); the formidable economic
partnership of Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa (BRICS); or as climate-
change crusaders in Brazil, South Africa,
India and China (BASIC); and advocates for
global change in the G20 and Non-Aligned-
Movement. South Africa values India’s
contribution to the continent through the India-
Africa Forum Summit (IAFS) Partnership and
both countries played instrumental roles
in recognising the importance of inclusive
sustainable development and ensuring that
no one is left behind.
Bilateral relations
India and South Africa’s bilateral relations
are structured through a Joint Ministerial
Committee (JMC) and Foreign Office
Consultations (FOC), which act as a review
mechanism of the implementation of
decisions taken during the JMC. The last
session of the JMC took place in 2015 during
which both countries adopted the Five-Year
Strategic Programme of Cooperation and
agreed to expand cooperation to include
finance, infrastructure, the defence sector,
deep mining and agro-processing. This
was followed by the Official Visit of Prime
Minister Modi in July 2016, which reaffirmed
South Africa’s strategic importance to Indian
diplomacy.
India’s economy is currently one of the
fastest-growing major economies in the world.
It is South Africa’s second-largest trading
partner in Asia and ranks among South
Africa’s top six trade partners. Both countries
possess certain comparative and competitive
advantages and complementarities, which
offer a wide scope for cooperation in trade,
investment and technology. While trade
between both countries have shown a steady
growth and exceeded the R94-billion mark,
there is scope for further strengthening trade
and investment. South Africa is looking to
diversify its product base with regard to
greater value addition in agro-processing and
growth in manufacturing and the services
industry.
In 2016, Prime Minister Modi announced
reforms in the form of lifting the caps on
foreign investment in certain sectors, which
should improve the ease of doing business in
India – a challenge that was faced by South
African business in the past. Lifting caps on
foreign investment in the defence and financial
sectors also provides investment opportunities
for South African companies. South Africa is
seeking to align its trade initiatives with the
Nine-Point Plan to accelerate growth and
tap into the highly lucrative domestic Indian
market. Currently, there are more than 100
Indian companies investing in South Africa,
including TATA (automobiles and hotels),
Mahindra (automobiles), Sahara Computers
(information and communications technology
[ICT]), Cipla (pharmaceuticals) and the Bank
of India while some major South African
companies have also invested in India,
including Sasol, FirstRand, Old Mutual,
Airports Company South Africa, Shoprite,
South African Breweries and Nando’s.
The Red Fort, New Delhi, India

38 39
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
South Africa and India also cooperate
in various other sectors, having signed
memoranda of understanding in, among
others, science and technology, arts and
culture, ICT, agriculture and tourism to give
impetus to political decisions.
Fostering more meaningful people-to-
people contact is one of the hallmarks of the
partnership and finds expression in the vibrant
tourism sector where expansion of the Indian
middle class has resulted in India becoming
a significant growth market for the South
African tourism industry. Coupled with the
beautiful African landscape and picturesque
coastal cities, South Africa is fast becoming a
destination of choice for the discerning Indian
traveller.
Tourist arrivals are up as stringent visa
regulations are being addressed through a
simplification of the visa process currently
under discussion between the two countries.
Multilateral relations
South Africa and India’s relations are multi-
faceted and dynamic as both countries are
deeply committed to upholding democracy,
promoting principles of human rights,
challenging the prevailing global governance
system, alleviating poverty, advancing
sustainable development, strengthening
South-South cooperation and working
tirelessly for the betterment of its people.
Advocates of the global South, India and
South Africa are committed to developing a
new development paradigm that seeks to
promote economic and cultural cooperation
on the basis of mutual interest and respect.
Both countries are committed to addressing
global inequalities and inequities in trade
negotiations at the World Trade Organisation
and are at the forefront of pushing for reform
of the United Nations system to ensure that
it is truly representative and reflective of
contemporary global dynamics. They are
equally committed to combating international
terrorism, religious extremism and trans-
border organised crime and illicit trafficking in
arms and narcotics.
IBSA
Both countries cooperate under the trilateral
partnership of IBSA, which is a powerful
mechanism to drive the global South’s reform
agenda. The successful IBSA Fund is an
important source of development funding
in the South, supporting numerous projects
with the goal of poverty alleviation and the
elimination of hunger in accordance with
Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development.
BRICS
South Africa and India are both valued
members of the BRICS grouping and,
together with its like-minded partners, are at
the forefront of promoting inclusive economic
partnerships and equitable participation in
the global systems and decision-making
structures.
Close cooperation between India and South
Africa in the changing global environment has
seen a greater political and economic role
for the African continent and other emerging
powers.
India chaired the BRICS Summit in 2016,
during which the Prime Minister called for
the doubling of intra-BRICS trade, enhancing
business opportunities and promoting ease of
business.
Continuous engagement will boost growth
prospects in their respective regions.
Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA)
South Africa and India also played
influential roles in shaping IORA into a
vibrant organisation, committed to making
sustainable use of the oceans. The Ocean
Economy has been identified as a major
driver for sustainable economic growth and
employment generation under Operation
Phakisa, which is South Africa’s flagship
project. South Africa is surrounded by vast
oceans, which have the potential to contribute
significantly to the country’s gross domestic
product. Taking over chairship of IORA this
year, South Africa is committed to leading the
organisation towards increased cooperation
in identified priority areas such as maritime
security and safety within the IOR region,
trade and investment facilitation, fisheries
management, disaster risk reduction,
academic and science and technology
cooperation, tourism promotion, cultural
exchanges and gender empowerment.
IAFS
India is a strong supporter and friend to Africa
and the establishment of the IAFS provided
the opportunity for Indian diplomacy to better
align with the needs of rapidly growing African
markets. India is seeking to position itself as a
key partner to Africa.
Among the most important outcomes
of the IAFS were the fast-tracking of the
implementation of the Duty Free Tariff
Preference Scheme offered by India aimed
at increasing trade between Africa and
India, financial assistance through grants
and soft credit, the support of small and
medium enterprises to promote employment
creation and the promotion of public-private
partnerships to encourage Indian businesses
to set up skills development units in African
industrial zones. There is indeed great cause
for celebrating the signing of the Red Fort
Declaration, which set the trajectory for sound
bilateral relations across various fields and
strong multilateral cooperation to influence
the shifting sands of global dynamics.
South Africa and India are sister nations
who have both inspired the world through
their fight for democracy and respect for
human rights.
DIPLOMACY 20 YEARS OF THE RED FORT DECLARATION: A CAUSE FOR CELEBRATION
Advocates of the global South, India and South Africa
are committed to developing a new development
paradigm that seeks to promote economic and
cultural cooperation on the basis of mutual interest
and respect.
Sheer
Driving Pleasure

40 41
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
President Barack
Obama’s African
legacy
President Obama recognised the demographic
dividend in Africa, which held both opportunities
and challenges for the continent in the years
ahead
.
F
ormer President Barack Obama
will always hold a special
place in the relations between
Africa and the United States of
America (USA). Not only was
he the first African-American
President, but he was also the first President
who was a direct first-generation African
descendant through his Kenyan father. In his
commitment to Africa, President Obama did
not only build on the initiatives that had been
launched by previous administrations, such
as the President’s Emergency Programme
for AIDS Relief and the African Growth and
Opportunity Act, but also launched significant
additional initiatives that will define his African
legacy and which will further strengthen the
ties between Africa and the USA.
President Obama hosted the first-ever
gathering of African leaders with the USA in
August 2014, the US-Africa Leaders’ Summit.
Other key legacies which flowed from his
visits to Africa, was the announcement of
the Power Africa and the Young African
Leaders Initiative (YALI). Power Africa
stemmed from a recognition that energy
is a crucial element in the continent’s
objective to stimulate industrialisation and
foster regional integration. Power Africa, in
fact, complements the African Union’s own
Programme for Infrastructure Development in
Africa, which has energy as a key component.
The YALI was a welcome contribution by
President Obama to invest in the continent’s
youth. This is achieved through offering
training, mentorship and exposure to the
talented young men and women who will
become the continent’s future leaders and
who will drive the economy of the future. Over
40% of Africa’s working-age population are
between the ages of 15 and 24, making it the
youngest continent in the world. President
Obama recognised the demographic dividend
DIPLOMACY PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA’S AFRICAN LEGACY DIPLOMACYPRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA’S AFRICAN LEGACY
in Africa, which held both opportunities and
challenges for the continent in the years
ahead.
On the economic front, the USA remains
a key trade and investment partner for
Africa and a significant investor and source
of development assistance, technology,
tourism and skills training. During the US-
Africa business forums that were held in 2014
and 2016, President Obama, among others,
announced US$7 billion in new financing to
promote US exports to and investments in
Africa under the Doing Business in Africa
Campaign.
The Obama Administration further
showed a willingness to support the AU
objectives with regard to peace-building
and post-conflict reconstruction and
development and at a multilateral level, his
Administration demonstrated a preference
The Obama Administration further showed a willingness to support the
African Union objectives with regard to peace-building and post-conflict
reconstruction and development and at a multilateral level, his Administration
demonstrated a preference for multilateral diplomacy and negotiation in
resolving international concerns.
for multilateral diplomacy and negotiation in
resolving international concerns.
As we celebrate President Obama’s
African legacy, South Africa is also looking
forward to working closely with the new
Administration of President Donald
Trump to further strengthen our bilateral
relations and to promote peace and
prosperity in Africa as well as in the rest
of the world.

42 43
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Ubuntu Awards
2017: “Celebrating
OR Tambo
…
In his Footsteps”
DIPLOMACY UBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS” DIPLOMACYUBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS”
''Let the footprints of OR Tambo serve as an
inspiration to all and let us work together in fulfilling
his vision and ideals. Our individual and collective
efforts can indeed make the world a different place
to live in
.''
42 43Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

44 45
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
T
he annual Ubuntu Awards,
hosted by the Department
of International Relations
and Cooperation, are held
to celebrate South African
citizens who play an active
role in projecting a positive image of South
Africa internationally through their good work.
The third annual Ubuntu Awards were
held on Saturday, 11 February, at the Cape
Town International Convention Centre, under
the theme: “Celebrating OR Tambo … In his
Footsteps”. This year’s awards marked the
centenary of struggle icon, Oliver Reginald
Tambo, who was the longest-serving
President of the African National Congress
(ANC). Born in 1917, the late struggle stalwart,
who passed away in 1993, would have turned
100 years old this year.
Addressing guests at the glittering event,
the Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane,
said the ceremony had over the past three
years proved to be an important and popular
programmatic activity that followed the State
of Nation Address.
“It resonates well with our people and our
collective desire to celebrate our very own
leaders and citizens who go beyond the call of
duty in their respective industries to contribute
to the betterment of this country as well as its
general populace.”
Reflecting on the theme of the event,
Minister Nkoana-Mashabane said: “We are
proud to celebrate the life and times of this
national icon, a revered statesman and a
gallant fighter of our liberation struggle. He
worked with his generation to shape our
country’s vision and constitutional value
system as well as the foundations and
principles of our domestic and foreign policy
outlook. OR was an individual epitome of the
spirit and vision of the very occasion we are
celebrating today”.
The Minister said the nominees had gone
beyond the call of duty and were exemplary of
active and responsible citizenry. Their passion
and dedication, she said, should serve as an
inspiration to all South Africans.
“This aptitude should indeed be a culture
that permeates throughout communities and
society in general.”
In the spirit of celebrating extraordinary
South Africans, the Minister also expressed
warm congratulations to Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini Zuma for the sterling work she
did during her tenure as the African Union
Commission Chairperson.
“She has made all of us as South Africans,
particularly women, very proud. She not only
pioneered her own path but also followed
through the footsteps to our great giant OR.
She worked hard in unifying the organisation
towards a common goal of collective
prosperity.”
The Minister also paid tribute to national
sports icon, former Springbok captain Joost
van der Westhuizen, who passed away earlier
in the week.
“Let the footprints of OR Tambo serve as
an inspiration to all and let us work together
in fulfilling his vision and ideals. Our individual
“This aptitude should indeed be a culture that
permeates throughout communities and society in
general
.”
and collective efforts can indeed make the
world a different place to live in,” the Minister
concluded.
2017 Winners
Sasol: Winner of the Ubuntu Economic
Diplomacy Award (Africa) and Ubuntu
Economic Diplomacy Award (Global)
Sasol now holds the record as the first
organisation in the history of the Ubuntu
Awards to win in two categories. The
Economic Diplomacy Awards are given to
South African businesses operating in at least
two countries on the continent (Africa) and
operating on several continents (Global) in
a way that displays good business practice
and governance, creates jobs and invests in
corporate social responsibility programmes in
the countries in which they operate.
Sasol has gone from being just a South
African fuels company to become an
international integrated energy and chemicals
company with over 200 chemical products
being sold worldwide. These products are
used in the production process of numerous
everyday products made worldwide and
benefit the lives of millions of people around
the world. This organisation operates in 33
countries and employs over 30 000 people
across the globe. Listed on the JSE as well
as the New York Stock Exchange, Sasol
is recognised globally for its outstanding
innovation in the energy space.
Siyabulela Xusa: Winner of the Ubuntu
Youth Diplomacy Award
The Youth Award is given to an individual,
between the ages of 15 and 35, who through
his or her actions, activities and achievements,
has promoted South Africa as a dynamic
country with an enabling environment for
youth to thrive in and contribute to making
South Africa and the world a better place.
Siya Xusa has accomplished more by the age
of 28 than many have in a lifetime – including
having a planet named after him, in honour
of his work in developing a record-breaking
rocket and creating safer, more energy-
efficient rocket fuel.
He is an Energy-Engineering Harvard
University graduate with a passion for
harnessing the power of the sun for clean
affordable energy. One of his earlier projects
won gold at the National Science Expo and
the Dr Derek Gray Memorial Award for the
most prestigious project in South Africa, which
led to an invitation to the International Youth
Science Fair in Sweden in 2006, where he
presented his project to the King and Queen
of Sweden and attended the Nobel Prize
ceremony in Stockholm.
In 2010, he was elected as a fellow of
the African Leadership Network, a premier
network of those individuals poised to shape
Africa’s future over the next 10 to 20 years,
consisting of the most dynamic, influential
and successful leaders and entrepreneurs
in Africa and its Diaspora. In 2011, he was
invited to the United Nations (UN) and the
New York Stock Exchange in recognition for
being one of the world’s emerging business
leaders and to offer strategies for solving the
world’s energy crisis.
His credibility was further endorsed
by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration-affiliated Lincoln Laboratory,
DIPLOMACY UBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS” DIPLOMACYUBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS”

46 47
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
which was so impressed by the young
engineer’s achievement that it named a minor
planet after him. Planet 23182, discovered in
2000, is now known as Siyaxuza and is found
in the main asteroid belt near Jupiter.
Pretty Yende: Winner of the Ubuntu Arts
and Culture Diplomacy Award (Youth) –
Public Vote
This award was established last year to
honour young people in the arts and culture
space who have shone on the international
stage and as a result made South Africa
shine. Pretty Yende is a world-renowned
opera singer from Piet Retief, Mpumalanga,
who has worked in London, Milan, New York
and Vienna. Representing South Africa on
a global stage, she has risen to the top of
the opera world with unparalleled speed,
having performed starring roles in the
world’s grandest opera houses, including the
Metropolitan Opera in New York City and the
Royal Opera in London.
Among her many achievements, she is
the only singer to have ever won all the main
prizes at the renowned Belvedere Singing
Competition in Vienna. Pretty is a global
inspiration, groundbreaker and has truly
displayed excellence in her chosen field.
Esther Mahlangu: Winner of the Ubuntu
Arts and Culture Diplomacy Award
(Veteran) – Public Vote
The award is given to an individual or
organisation that has promoted a positive
image of South Africa through arts and culture
and/or facilitated cultural exchanges between
South Africa and no fewer than two other
countries for a minimum of 20 years.
Esther Mahlangu is most well known
for her bold large-scale Ndebele inspired
artworks, MKHARIBO!!! She recently
collaborated with John Legend to design the
limited-edition Belvedere Vodka bottle for
the #MakeADifference campaign, using her
Ndebele tribal art style to raise money for HIV
prevention.
In October 2016, Ms Mahlangu signed a
BMW luxury automobile and made it into a
work of art that the public could bid on. The
vehicle was on display at the renowned Freize
Art Fair in London. This iconic collaboration
comes 25 years after she created a BMW
Art Car, which was the first to be signed by
a woman.
Babies Behind Bars: Winner of the Ubuntu
Social Responsibility Award
The Social Responsibility Award celebrates
the acts of kindness that have been done unto
others by South African non-governmental
organisations.
Babies Behind Bars, founded by Romy
Titus, a South African radio and television
personality, is a not-for-profit organisation
(NPO) based in Johannesburg. They look
after babies from birth to two years old while
they are living with their mothers in prisons
across the country.
The organisation has also expanded into
correctional facilities beyond South Africa’s
borders, having managed to assist 14 prisons
in South Africa, four in Namibia and one in
Swaziland as well as prisons in Mozambique
and Kenya. Babies Behind Bars also conducts
weekly visits to correctional services with the
aim of providing some relief and encouraging
health and safety for the children.
Romy Titus, founder of Babies Behind
Bars, accepted the award
Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation: Winner of
the Ubuntu Social Responsibility Award
The Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation, housed
within the Desmond Tutu HIV Centre (DTHC)
at the University of Cape Town (UCT), is
committed to the pursuit of excellence in
research, treatment, training and prevention
of HIV and related infections in southern
Africa.
The foundation, supported by the
Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and his
wife, Leah, has been in existence as an NPO
since 2004.
The DTHC is an accredited research
grouping within the UCT and is supported in its
work by the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation.
The research, clinical and community
outreach staff of the foundation share a
common-agreed purpose to lessen the impact
of the HIV pandemic on individuals, families
and communities, through innovation and
their passion for humanity.
Fully self-funded by grants and other raised
funds, its shared vision for the future includes
the continuation of current TB/HIV-related
work of treatment, care, prevention and
education, particularly in the most vulnerable
populations, while staying abreast of new
developments and continuing to contribute to
cutting-edge information in HIV and TB public
health, social and clinical research.
Riaan Beukes, accepted the award on
behalf of the foundation.
Caster Semenya: Winner of the Ubuntu
Sports Diplomacy Award
Since winning a gold in the women’s 800-m
final at the 2009 World Championships with
a time of 1:55.45, Caster Semenya has not
looked back. She earned a silver medal in the
800 m at the 2012 Olympic Games in London
– becoming the first black South African
woman to win an Olympic medal in the field.
There are few who can dispute that 2016
was Caster’s year, seeing her snatch the Gold
medal in Rio de Janeiro in the 800 m.
Caster has captured the mind, heart and
spirits of people across the entire world. Her
determination to triumph against all odds,
her sheer willpower and the grace in the face
of tribulation have made her one of South
Africa’s all-time favourite sportspeople.
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the People’s Republic
of China to the Republic of South Africa,
TIAN Xuejun: Winner of the OR Tambo
Excellence in Diplomacy Award
Minister Nkoana-Mashabane awarded the
OR Tambo Excellence in Diplomacy Award to
a diplomat residing in South Africa who has
contributed immensely to the upliftment of
the South African people over and above the
traditional channels of diplomacy.
Winnie Madikizela Mandela: Winner of the
OR Tambo Lifetime Achievement Award
Winnie Madikizela Mandela is known for her
constant fight for justice and triumph over
tribulation. Her name is synonymous with the
struggle for liberation in South Africa and she
is lovingly referred to as the Mother of the
Nation.
She attended primary school in Bizana and
matriculated at Shawbury High School, where
she distinguished herself as a person with
exceptional leadership qualities. In 1953, she
was admitted to the Jan Hofmeyr School of
Social Work in Johannesburg. She completed
her degree in Social Work in 1955, and was
offered a scholarship for further study in the
United States of America. However, she
turned it down and opted for a challenging
position as the first qualified black medical
social worker at the Baragwanath Hospital in
Johannesburg instead.
She became interested in politics while
working at the hospital. In the mid-1950s,
she became involved in the ANC. In 1957,
she met Nelson Mandela. At the time he was
on trial, along with 155 other people, in the
now infamous Treason Trial following the civil
disobedience campaigns of the early 1950s.
They were married on 19 June 1958 in a
Methodist service in the Transkei, after which
Winnie settled in Mandela’s home in Soweto.
From 1962, Winnie was subjected to a
virtually uninterrupted series of legal orders,
which prevented her from living, working
and socialising. She was banned under the
Suppression of Communism Act, 1950 for
her part in the struggle and was restricted
to the Orlando Township in Soweto. She
started to work clandestinely for the ANC,
which included participating in underground
meetings and the printing and circulation of
pamphlets.
In 1969, she was detained under the
Terrorism Act, 1967 and was placed in solitary
confinement for 17 months. In 1970, she was
placed under house arrest. She repeatedly
flouted this order and was charged on a
number of occasions.
During the 1976 youth uprisings, she
established the Black Women’s Federation
and the Black Parents’ Association. She
fought gallantly throughout the 1970s and
1980s, undergoing constant harassment,
arrest and banishment from the apartheid
regime.
Just before the advent of freedom in
1993, she was elected president of the ANC
Women’s League (ANCWL), a position that
she held until 2003. She was voted onto the
ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) in
Polokwane.
The award was accepted on her behalf by
her granddaughter, Lindo Zici Mandela.
Gertrude Shope: Winner of the OR Tambo
Lifetime Achievement Award
The second Lifetime Achievement Award was
awarded to the freedom fighter, stalwart and
fierce feminist, Gertrude Shope. Mme Shope
was born in Johannesburg, and grew up in
Zimbabwe. She was trained as a teacher
and when she was 29 years she decided
to join the ANC. Soon afterwards, she left
teaching as part of the campaign to boycott
Bantu Education. She was the chairperson
of the Central Western Jabavu Branch of the
Federation of South African Women.
In 1966, the ANC convinced her to leave
South Africa and join her husband, Mark
Shope, in exile. While in exile, Gertrude and
her husband lived in Prague, Botswana,
Tanzania, Czechoslovakia, Zambia and
Nigeria. From 1970 to 1971, she was
secretary to the head of the ANC’s Woman’s
Section, Florence Mophosho.
Together these two women started the
publication, Voice of the Women. Mme Shope
then became the ANC’s chief representative
in Lusaka and in 1981, was promoted to
head of the Women’s Section. She became
a member of the NEC of the ANC in 1985.
In 1991, Shope was elected president of the
ANCWL – a position she held until 1993.
She worked together with Albertina Sisulu
in convening the ANC’s Internal Leadership
Corps Task Force from 1990 to 1991. In 1994,
Ms Shope became a Member of Parliament in
the Government of National Unity.
The OR Tambo Lifetime Achievement
Award is named after DIRCO’s patron saint,
as he is fondly known.
The Oliver and Adelaide Tambo Foundation
was established in 2011, with the aim to
promote and popularise the legacies of
both Oliver Reginald Tambo and Adelaide
Tshukudu Tambo. The foundation’s mandate
is to promote the legacies of these two
patriots by supporting and addressing
issues of socio-economic upliftment and
advancement, education, women and youth
empowerment, and the promotion of arts,
culture and heritage.
The year 2017 marks an important era as
the foundation celebrates Oliver Tambo’s
centenary. To celebrate his life, the foundation
has embarked on a campaign to promote his
legacy and highlight his values in addressing
challenges and aspirations held by both
South Africans and citizens across the world.
MinisterNkoana-Mashabane commissioned
the development of a work of art by the young
artist Setlamorago Mashilo and this was
handed over to Linda Vilakazi from the Oliver
and Adelaide Tambo Foundation during the
Ubuntu Awards.
DIPLOMACY UBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS” DIPLOMACYUBUNTU AWARDS 2017: “CELEBRATING OR TAMBO … IN HIS FOOTSTEPS”

48 49
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Minister Pandor wins 2016
AAAS Science Diplomacy
Award
“Under Minister Pandor’s leadership, South Africa has
become a catalyst for developing scientific capabilities
across the African continent
.”
science initiatives and institutions throughout
South Africa and the African continent.”
“We believe the position you occupy is not
predetermined in anyway and that everybody
who has talent should be allowed to bloom.
And that’s the only reason that I believe
everybody should say that all countries can do
well in science, technology and innovation,”
the Minister said.
The Minister also addressed an earlier
panel discussion titled, AAAS Networks
of Diasporas in Engineering and Science
Forum. The discussion focussed on the role
of diasporas in achieving the SDGs.
During her address, Minster Pandor
asserted that Africans must close the research
gap with the rest of the world. African research
lags behind the rest of the world in most
science disciplines. The overall stats are well
known. With 13,4% of the world’s population,
the continent is home to only 1,1% of the
world’s scientific researchers. It has about
one scientist or engineer per 10 000 people,
compared with 20 to 50 in industrial nations.
“We know where the problems lie. There's
too little regional collaboration among African
countries.
''There's too little public support for
sustainable development. There's too little
focus on programmes to mobilise science
and technology for sustainable development,”
said the Minister.
The Minister added: “In South Africa, we
have tried to put in place the right policies.
We have a separate department to prioritise
research. We have made science and
technology a national priority”.
Minister Pandor also asserted that: “African
governments must take the lead in pushing
for science-led development: Science
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics
should be a strategic priority”.
Science is at the heart of the AU’s Agenda
2063. Minister Pandor said that little would
come of this plan unless each African country
adopted a policy of science-led development
and put an efficient government department in
place to pursue it.
“Only then will our grand plans be able to
leverage private and philanthropic participation
– like the Alliance for Accelerating Excellence
in Science in Africa (AESA), an initiative of
the African Academy of Sciences and the
New Partnership for Africa’s Development.”
The AESA platform was established with
initial funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the Wellcome Trust and the
United Kingdom Department for International
Development.
It will run two new research initiatives: a
US$70-million grant to support seven African
scientists and Grand Challenges Africa, which
supports 400 researchers to find solutions to
health and development problems.
“Africans must keep their scientists at
home,” said Minister Pandor as she raised
her final point.
“I am often struck by the number of Africans
I meet working in laboratories and science
institutes outside Africa, contributing to the
innovation strengths of countries in the North.
I know that research is international and
collaborative, but I want the international to
mean from Africa by Africa-based scientists
too,” said the Minister.
The Minister added: “Our friends in the
world do not have the same interest we
do in addressing our health services, food
insecurity, climate change, inadequate
infrastructure, low skills development and
technology hunger”. According to Minister
Pandor, these problems should be addressed
by African and Africa-based researchers. “We
must create partnerships that have a clear
purpose, a well-crafted agenda of science-
based initiatives and public funding that
adequately resources researchers and their
institutions. The mandate for our research,
development and innovation must be
unequivocal – find solutions to our problems,
create and respond.”
The Minister emphasised that: “Africa
must do science in Africa, for Africa and
finally free itself from the belief that someone
out their cares more about our problems
that we do”.
DIPLOMACY DIPLOMACYMINISTER PANDOR WINS 2016 AAAS SCIENCE DIPLOMACY AWARD MINISTER PANDOR WINS 2016 AAAS SCIENCE DIPLOMACY AWARD
O
n 17 February 2017,
the Minister of Science
and Technology, Naledi
Pandor, received the
2016 Award for Science
Diplomacy from the
American Association for the Advancement
of Science (AAAS) at a ceremony during
the 183rd AAAS Annual Meeting in Boston,
Massachusetts.
The Minister was honoured by the AAAS not
only for integrating science in policy-making
within South Africa, but also for her advocacy
for young scientists and women scientists
by supporting initiatives that encouraged
international collaboration for both groups.
“Science not only enables us to more
decisively respond to major societal
challenges,” Minister Pandor said, “but
also plays a critical part in helping to foster
international partnerships, friendship and
solidarity.” She explained that the role of
science diplomacy was more important
than ever, and said she was humbled and
honoured to receive the award.
“Under her leadership, South Africa has
made numerous contributions to building
science structures in organisations such as the
African Union (AU) and the Southern African
Development Community, to strengthening
the science granting councils of other African
countries, and to expanding the role of the
Global Research Council,” wrote Tom Wang,
AAAS’ Chief International Officer and Director
of the Centre for Science Diplomacy, in a
letter to the AAAS Board of Directors.
Minister Pandor has promoted and
expanded the South African Research
Chairs Initiative (SARChI). The programme,
established in 2006, is designed to attract and
retain excellence in research and innovation
at South African public universities through
the establishment of research chairs at the
institutions. In 2015, the Minister announced
20 new research chairs designated for
women applicants, and the percentage of
women in SARChI chairs has increased from
23% to 39%.
The Minister also helped to initiate and
host Science Forum South Africa (SFSA) in
2015. The event was the first of its kind on the
continent and drew over 1 300 participants
in its first year. The forum aims to provide a
platform for debate on the role of science,
technology and innovation in society, as
well as to promote international science
partnerships. Minister Pandor hosted the
2016 forum, which built on the success of
the inaugural meeting and drew over 2 000
participants from around the globe.
SFSA 2016 focussed on how to strengthen
scientific engagement and collaboration
across the continent of Africa.
Minister Pandor was nominated for the 2016
AAAS Award for Science Diplomacy by Jean
Lebel, the President of Canada’s International
Development Research Centre. In a letter of
support, Lebel wrote that the Minister had
worked tirelessly to connect research with
sustainable development goals (SDGs).
Lebel also noted that Minister Pandor was
leading numerous efforts to promote research
capacities of young and emerging scientists,
particularly female scientists. “Under Minister
Pandor’s leadership, South Africa has become
a catalyst for developing scientific capabilities
across the African continent,” Lebel wrote.
Klaus Streicher, the Deputy Head of Mission
of the German Embassy in South Africa, also
submitted a letter of support. Streicher wrote
that Minister Pandor received the Grand
Cross of Merit with Star and Shoulder Ribbon
of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic
of Germany, one of the highest possible
recognitions in Germany. Streicher explained
that the Minister received the award to honour
her commitment to promoting German-South
African relations, particularly through scientific
and technological cooperation. “Naledi
Pandor is an outstanding woman committed
to scientific advancement and cooperation
not only in her own country, but with a global
perspective,” Streicher wrote.
Minister Pandor was selected to receive the
award by an advisory committee, comprising
experts in science, international cooperation
and diplomacy. The committee noted that
she had worked to integrate science in
policy-making within her own country, and
that she had launched numerous initiatives
to promote collaboration regionally and with
other countries. Minister Pandor also led the
implementation of South Africa’s Ten-Year
Innovation Plan and the National Research
and Development Strategy.
The AAAS Award for Science Diplomacy
was approved by the AAAS Board of Directors
in 2010 (it was formerly the AAAS International
Scientific Cooperation Award, established in
1992). It recognises an individual or a limited
number of individuals working together in
the scientific and engineering or foreign
affairs communities, making an outstanding
contribution to furthering science diplomacy.
The award consists of a plaque and an
honorarium of $5 000.
In accepting the award, Minister Pandor
told the audience that the award was being
keenly followed in South Africa.
“We are deeply honoured in our country
to have one of us recognised in this way,
because we regard this as recognition of
the entire people our country and the efforts
that we had begun to make since 1994 when
we began to build our very new and young
democracy.”
The Minister added: “The Department
of Science and Technology is dedicated to
enhancing science and technology in South
Africa, to building human capital, particularly
young women and black people, but to also
promoting the establishment of sustainable
The Minister was honoured by the AAAS not only
for integrating science in policy-making within South
Africa, but also for her advocacy for young scientists
and women scientists by supporting initiatives that
encouraged international collaboration for both
groups
.

50 51
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
DIPLOMACY FEMALE DIPLOMATS EMPOWERED
Female diplomats
empowered
By Andre Groenewald
Director: Mediation Support Unit, Department of International Relations and Cooperation
T
he Department of International
Relations and Cooperation’s
(DIRCO) Mediation Support
Unit and the International
School of the DIRCO
Diplomatic Academy hosted
a Capacity-Building Programme on Conflict
Resolution, Negotiation, Mediation and
Constitution Drafting for 16 senior women
diplomats from 16 different African countries,
as well as 18 officials from the relevant
International Cooperation, Trade and Security
Cluster departments (including DIRCO;
the departments of communications, home
affairs and justice; the South African National
Defence Force; and South African Police
Service) from 20 February to 10 March 2017.
This initiative formed part of a broader
partnership with Norway (Norwegian
Embassy) and represents South Africa's
commitment to the African Agenda, including
regional and continental efforts to address
conflict and the challenges of the post-conflict
reconstruction and development process
(PCRD).
The broader partnership with Norway
included the hosting of three capacity-
building programmes on Conflict Resolution,
Negotiations and Mediation. During Youth
Month in June 2016, a programme was
hosted for 37 Student Representative Council
members from 18 South African institutes of
higher learning to assist them with knowledge
and capacity when negotiating.
During Women’s Month in August 2016, a
programme was hosted for 60 South African
women from civil society. The Mediation
Support Unit also hosted the Second Gertrude
Shope Annual Dialogue Forum on Conflict
Resolution and Peace-Making with high-
level female peace-builders from the Nordic
countries (Norway, Sweden and Finland),
as well as Africa (Burundi, Somalia and
Democratic Republic of Congo). The capacity-
building programme and the Gertrude Shope
Annual Dialogue Forum commemorated the
60th anniversary of the Women’s March to the
Union Buildings in 1956.
The third programme was hosted for
African diplomats during February/March
2017 to commemorate International Women’s
Day and to give effect to the international
obligations from United Nations Security
Council Resolution 1325.
It will be recalled that South Africa
committed herself to the 50th anniversary
of the Solemn Declaration of the Heads of
State and Government of the African Union
(AU), assembled at the Golden Jubilee of
the Organisation of African Unity-AU, which
called for the development of Agenda 2063
through a people-centred process. This
process recognised the invaluable role of
women, youth, the private sector, academia,
labour and civil society as critical stakeholders
responsible for implementing Agenda 2063, to
assume a leading role in shaping and charting
the future course and destiny of the continent
and its people.
The Training Programme on Conflict
Resolution, Negotiation, Mediation and
Constitutional Drafting covered a wide range
of issues within the framework of PCRD,
mediation, peacekeeping, negotiation,
international relations and diplomacy. The
programme was furthermore aimed at not
only improving an understanding of these
issues, but to also provide participants with
the necessary diplomatic and other skills
to perform as diplomats for their countries.
A number of site visits to complement the
substance and presentations by experts also
formed part of the training schedule.
The programme concluded on 10 March
2017 with a graduation ceremony, which
included the celebration of International
Women’s Day (8 March 2017).
This initiative forms part of a partnership with Norway (Norwegian Embassy) and
represents South Africa’s commitment to the African Agenda .
37th SADC Summit
9 – 20 AUGUST 2017, PRETORIA, SOUTH AFRICA
Partnering with the
Private Sector in Developing
Industry and Regional Value Chains
 facebook.com/sadc.int
 @SADC_News #SADCSummit
 www.sadc.int
SADC- A4-ADVERT.indd   1 2017/08/07   12:47 PM

52 53
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURE LIBERATION HERITAGE: AHMED KATHRADA
LIBERATION HERITAGE
Ahmed Kathrada
O
n 28 March 2017, struggle
veteran Ahmed Kathrada,
87, passed away
peacefully at the Donald
Gordon Medical Centre
in Johannesburg after a
short illness. He was admitted to hospital for
surgery related to blood clotting in the brain
earlier the month.
An activist to the end, Kathrada has had
an illustrious political career having served
between 1994 and 1999 as the parliamentary
counsellor to late President Nelson Mandela.
He was born on 21 August 1929 in rural
Schweizer-Reneke in the North West and
was introduced to politics as a young boy
when he joined a non-racial youth club run by
FEATURE
LIBERATION HERITAGE: AHMED KATHRADA
continue his political and military work in the
ANC’s armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe.
In July 1963, the police swooped on
Liliesleaf Farm in Rivonia, a Johannesburg
suburb where Kathrada and other banned
persons had been meeting secretly. This led
to the famous Rivonia Trial in which eight
accused were sentenced to life imprisonment
with hard labour on Robben Island. His fellow
prisoners included ANC leaders such as
Mandela, Sisulu, Govan Mbeki, Raymond
Mhlaba, Denis Goldberg, Elias Motsoaledi
and Andrew Mlangeni. Kathrada spent 26
the Young Communist League. At the tender
age of 17, Kathrada participated in the 1946
Passive Resistance Campaign led by the
South African Indian Congress. He was part
of 2 000 resisters who were arrested and
imprisoned for defying a law that discriminated
against Indian South Africans.
Under the tutelage of Transvaal Indian
Congress leader, Dr Yusuf Dadoo, Kathrada
later befriended emerging African National
Congress (ANC) leaders such as Walter
Sisulu, Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo.
In 1952, Kathrada was in a group of 20,
including Mandela and Sisulu, who were
sentenced to nine months in prison with
hard labour – suspended for two years – for
organising the Defiance Campaign against
six unjust apartheid laws. The campaign was
jointly organised by the ANC and SA Indian
Congress.
In 1954, he was placed under restrictions
by apartheid security police and was arrested
several times for breaking his banning orders.
In 1956, he was among the 156 Congress
activists and leaders charged with High
Treason. The trial continued for four years,
after which all the accused were acquitted.
Kathrada, Mandela and Sisulu were among
the last 30 to be acquitted.
While they were on trial in 1960, the ANC
and Pan-Africanist Congress were banned.
In 1962, Kathrada was placed under “house
arrest”. The following year, Kathrada broke
his banning orders and went underground to
years and three months in prison, 18 of which
were on Robben Island. In 1982, Mandela,
Sisulu, Kathrada, Mhlaba and Mlangeni were
transferred to Pollsmoor Prison in Cape Town.
While in prison, he obtained four
university degrees, namely BA (History and
Criminology), B Bibliography (African Politics
and Library Science), BA Honours (History)
and BA Honours (African Politics).
Soon after his release on 15 October
1989, the ANC was unbanned. At its first
legal conference in South Africa, Kathrada
was elected onto its National Executive
Committee (NEC). Until 1994, he headed the
ANC’s Public Relations Department.
At its conference in 1997, Kathrada
declined nomination to the NEC.
In 1994, Kathrada was elected to Parliament
and served as President Mandela’s
parliamentary counsellor. He was chairperson
of the Robben Island Museum Council from
1997 until his term expired in 2006.
In 2008, the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation
was launched with the aim of deepening non-
racialism.
Kathrada was an active participant in the
foundation’s work, which includes promoting
constitutional ideals and human rights, youth
leadership and development, challenging
racism and preserving and promoting
liberation history.
Kathrada is survived by his wife, Barbara
Hogan, also an ANC stalwart and veteran,
who once served as the Minister of Public
Enterprises.
52 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
An activist to the end,
Kathrada has had an
illustrious political career
having served between
1994 and 1999 as the
parliamentary counsellor
to late President Nelson
Mandela.

54 55
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURE SS MENDI – ONE OF SA'S MOST HEART-WRENCHING TRAGEDIES
O
ne of the most heart-
wrenching tragedies in
our country’s recorded
history is the sinking
of the SS Mendi, the
troopship that was sent
to the icy depths of the English Channel
100 years ago.
Carrying well over 800 servicemen, the
majority of whom were black South Africans,
the SS Mendi was struck by another South
African vessel, the SS Darro, which was
travelling at a recklessly high speed on the
morning of 21 February 1917.
Being much larger than the Mendi, the
Darro survived the collision, and as it sailed
nonchalantly away, its captain unmoved and
unperturbed, 616 South Africans, 607 of them
black troops, and 30 crew, died at sea on the
Mendi’s final voyage.
FEATURESS MENDI – ONE OF SA'S MOST HEART-WRENCHING TRAGEDIES
SS Mendi – One of SA's
most heart-wrenching
tragedies
We commemorate and honour all those who
perished on the Mendi, regardless of race, creed,
ethnicity or rank, because this is a story of supreme
courage and sacrifice
.
By Nathi Mthethwa
Minister of Arts and Culture
i
i
On 21 February 2017, South Africa honoured
and remembered members of the South African
Native Labour Corps (SANLC) who lost their
lives during the sinking of the SS Mendi a
100 years ago. The event was commemorated
as part of Armed Forces Day in KwaZulu-Natal
at the Moses Mabhida Stadium.
President Jacob Zuma was one of the high-
profile citizens who graced the event, which
displayed the South African National Defence
Force’s (SANDF) fire power and equipment.
A full mechanised parade of 300 military
vehicles, including tanks and 4 000 soldiers
from the SANDF, participated in the parade.
On 20 February 2017, the Minister in
The Presidency responsible for Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Jeff Radebe, was
in the United Kingdom to pay tribute to the
soldiers who perished.
He joined the Princess Royal,
Princess Anne, her husband,
Vice-Admiral Sir Timothy Lawrence, and the
Chief of the South African Navy, Vice-Admiral
Mosiwa Hlongwane, who also paid tribute to the
soldiers.
Speaking at a memorial service at
Southampton's Hollybrook Cemetery, Minister
Radebe said that South Africans had many
lessons to learn from the soldiers.
He said they temporarily suspended all their
demands for equality so that the human race
could be saved from itself.
SAnews.gov.za
National Orders are the highest form of
recognition that South Africa bestows on
deserving citizens. The President of the
Republic as the Grand Patron of the National
Orders, awards these orders, which are
inclusive and represent all South Africans.
The Order of Mendi for Bravery is awarded to
South African citizens who have distinguished
themselves by displaying extraordinary acts of
bravery through which their lives were placed
in great danger or who have lost their lives,
including trying to save the life of another
person or by saving property, in or outside the
Republic of South Africa.
Fittingly, the central motif of the design of this
order is the oval shape of a traditional African
shield, usually made from animal hide woven
into a rigid and durable armour and used for
protection in close combat. The band, which
renders the shape of the shield, is punctuated
with the spoor of the lion, representing
vigilance, power and bravery, and symbolising
South Africa’s efforts at protecting its borders
and the country. The band is criss-crossed with
the tips and bases of a knobkierrie and a spear;
traditional symbols of defence and honour.
The central image within the shield is an
image of the SS Mendi sailing on the waters of
the English Channel.
The depiction of the blue crane in flight
above the SS Mendi symbolises the departing
souls of the drowned soldiers.
The feathers of the blue crane were
traditionally conferred to adorn brave warriors
during the time of colonial wars.
The central image is sealed above by
a green emerald; which is surrounded on
three sides by renditions of the bitter aloe, a
hardy indigenous South African plant used
in traditional medicine. The three bitter aloes
represent resilience and survival and also
serve as symbolic directional pointers, showing
the way when rendering assistance to those in
need during natural disasters.
On 8 August 1917, a British court found Darro’s
master, Henry W Stump, guilty of having
travelled at a dangerously high speed in thick
fog, and of having failed to ensure that his ship
emitted the necessary fog sound signals. The
triumphant Stump must have heaved a sigh
of relief when his licence was suspended for
only a year.
History had recorded that Stump did receive
a report that he had collided with a ship which
was transporting native troops aboard, and
that it was sinking, but he chose to sail full
steam ahead.
Having set sail on 16 January 1917, when
the Mendi troopship left Cape Town en route
to La Havre harbour in France, the men were
supposed to serve in World War I, but this
being the time when dispossession and racism
were entrenching their claws in the fabric of
South African society, the African troops had
been refused training in modern weaponry.
The reason, they had been told, was that “the
war was a white man’s war”.
The South African Native Labour Corps
(SANLC), as they were called in apartheid
parlance, were recruited exclusively as a
labour force to dig trenches, provide logistical
support, offload tons of ammunition and do
odd duties during World War I.
Even out at sea, apartheid racism reigned
supreme. They had been misled to believe
that in return for their services, they would
receive their liberation back home after the
war. It was not to be.
However, as we look to the past, so too must
we cast our sights to the future, determined to
draw lessons from our history in order to craft
a cohesive nation where human solidarity,
justice, dignity and compassion are the core of
our national DNA.
As we grapple with social blights such as
racism, sexism and xenophobia, we must
remember the profound words of one of the
men on the Mendi, Isaac Williams Wauchope,
an interpreter who had previously served as a
minister in the Congregational Native Church
of Fort Beaufort and Blinkwater. As he sought
to calm the sinking shipload of men, he raised
buried in Portsmouth, Littlehampton, Hastings
and East Dean.
We commemorate and honour all those
who perished on the Mendi, regardless of
race, creed, ethnicity or rank, because this is
a story of supreme courage and sacrifice.
As we salute these men who died together
like brothers, what better tribute can there
be but to commit, each one of us as South
Africans, to the quest for a non-racial order.
The story of the
Mendi is also a challenge
for our filmmakers, novelists, playwrights,
musicians, fashion designers and others, to
immortalise not only the legend of the Mendi,
but the many other moments of awe and
wonder our rich history has to offer.
When they do so, they will find a government
willing and eager to partner in the business of
the arts and the celebration of our heritage.
They will also find a global audience ready
to share in our magic.

This article was first published on Independent Online.
his arms and declared: “Be quiet and calm,
my countrymen. What is happening now is
what you came to do ... you are going to die,
but that is what you came to do. Brothers, we
are drilling the death drill. I, a Xhosa, say you
are my brothers ... Swazis, Pondos, Basotho
... so let us die like brothers. We are the sons
of Africa. Raise your war cries, brothers, for
though they made us leave our assegais in
the kraal, our voices are left with our bodies”.
We are reminded that among those who
perished in the deep during the sinking of
SS Mendi were some prominent men, such
as the Pondoland chiefs Hendry Bokleni,
Dokoda, Richard Ndamase, Mxonywa
Bangani and Mongameli, and the Reverend
Isaac Wauchope Dyobha. In 2006, the
Commonwealth War Graves Commission
launched an education resource, called:
Let us Die like Brothers, to highlight the role
played by black South Africans during World
War I. Treated as inferior while alive, in death
they have been accorded the same dignified
recognition as all other Commonwealth war
dead.
The tragedy of the Mendi is also a stark
reminder that conflict is a misfortune not
only for the fallen, but for their families and
for broader society. In the case of the men on
the Mendi, their widows were not immediately
informed about the fate of their husbands
and partners when they were offered black
mourning clothes. It was not until a while later
that they were told the ship had sunk.
In the centenary of OR Tambo, we celebrate
the memory of these legends whose bodies
could not be retrieved, save for those few who
were washed ashore on British soil, with some

56 57
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Five globally important
archaeological sites
in Africa
The number of unearthed archaeological sites across
Africa has given the world insights into the history of the
continent and the world
. Lalibela Churches, Ethiopia
56 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11  57Issue 12 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Five globally important
archaeological sites
in Africa
The number of unearthed archaeological sites across
Africa has given the world insights into the history of the
continent and the world
.

58 59
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURE FIVE GLOBALLY IMPORTANT ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES IN AFRICA FEATUREFIVE GLOBALLY IMPORTANT ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES IN AFRICA
F
rom pyramids in the north,
to cryptic stone cities and
ancient civilisations further
south, these sites offer many
mysteries, as they do answers.
Lying untouched and hidden
for thousands of years, they can sometimes
provide us with some understanding of who
we are, as Africans, today.
The Stone Circles of Senegal and Gambia
The Senegambia Stone Circles are one
of Africa’s most significant archaeological
discoveries.
Spread across thousands of miles in
Senegal and Gambia, these four large
stone constructions, also referred to as the
Senegambian stone circles, date back to
300 BC. Judging by the discovery of graves
and evidence of communities, the construction
of the site shows evidence of a prosperous
58 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
and organised society based on the amount
of labour required to build such structures.
They consist of over 30 000 laterite stones,
17 000 monuments and 2 000 home sites.
Experts believe that much like obelisks, the
stones were arranged purposefully for either
religious or communal reasons. Finding,
transporting and shaping the laterite, it is
understood, would have required some kind
of understanding of geology and intricate tool
work.
At the largest of the sites, at Sine Ngayene,
Senegal, evidence of iron smelting and
quarries was unearthed. Layered evidence in
the ground indicates a timeline of more than
700 years when communities lived, worked
and worshipped in the area.
Meroë, Sudan
An ancient city of palaces, iron production
and pyramids along the east bank of
the Nile, Meroë dates back to 800 BC.
Embracing sophisticated Egyptian culture
and possessing fertile land and abundant iron
deposits, the city became a prominent trading
post, renowned as far as Rome, Greece and
Persia.
It is mentioned in the book of Genesis
(by the name Aethiopia ) as a prominent yet
vulnerable centre of commerce. The city
traded with the Roman Empire, and it has
been suggested by archaeologists, even with
early Indian and Chinese explorers. Residents
even farmed elephants to be exported for
foreign armies.
Its vulnerability and prominence made
it a regular target for marauding armies
over seven centuries. Eventually losing
its Egyptian influence and culture, Meroë
developed its own language, religions and
customs that were all lost to history when the
city was finally destroyed in AD 330.
59
Issue 12 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
It lay untouched and undiscovered until 1821,
when archaeologists excavated the first of its
200 distinctive Nubian pyramids. The written
language of Meroë remains one of the world’s
greatest undeciphered languages.
Great Zimbabwe Stone Houses, Masvingo,
Zimbabwe
Dating back almost a millennium, the three-
compound stone construction covering
18 000 acres was built using a sophisticated
form of stone masonry not found in the
surrounding region at the time. The complex
was home to 18 000 people and is believed to
have taken 300 years to construct. Operating
as a proto-city, Great Zimbabwe contains
evidence of a monarchy, religion, commerce
and mining.
Mystery surrounds its decline, with
some experts speculating that the rapid
depletion of nearby gold mines may have
Meroë, Sudan
The Stone Circles of Senegal and Gambia

60 61
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURECELEBRATING A CENTENARY OF ACADEMIC  EXCELLENCE ON THE AFRICAN CONTINENT
been the ultimate cause. Great Zimbabwe is
recognised as a United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation World
Heritage Site.
Lalibela Churches, Ethiopia
Once considered one of the holiest places in
Africa, the 11 Lalibela churches were built in
the 12th century for the burgeoning popularity
of Christianity in the region. Inspired by their
connection to King Solomon, early African
Christians, unable to make pilgrimages
to Jerusalem, were able to travel here to
pay homage. The design of the complex
resembles parts of Jerusalem.
The site consists of monolith churches of
varying sizes, each carved out of volcanic
basalt and intricately decorated with early
Christian iconography. The largest of the
churches, the impressive Bete Giyorgis
(Church of Saint George), is considered to be
the most finely executed and best preserved
church in the world.
While Lalibela was partially destroyed by
Muslim armies in the 16th century, much of
the site survived intact and has grown over
the past 400 years to become a medium-
sized town.
Bakoni Ruins, South Africa
The Bakoni Ruins of Machadodorp,
Mpumalanga, is one of the world’s greatest
unsolved archaeological puzzles.
Dating back more than 200 000 years,
this “lost city of Africa” is a large collection
of complex stone terraces with evidence
of settlements, fields and roads, as well
as signs of advanced technological and
agricultural innovation that existed long
before the arrival of Europeans in the region.
Case in point is the site’s most prominent
feature: Adam’s Calendar, a 30-m stone
circle with positioned monolith rocks within
it. The monoliths are aligned to match the
movement of the Orion’s Belt star formation,
and are presumed to be an early indicator of
charted time.
Viewed from the air, the ruins create
a vast design of mazes and passages
intricately connected over hundreds of
kilometres. Needless to say, archaeologists
are bewildered by the site. One of its few
provable theories is that the age of the ruins
indicates that the ancient Bakoni people who
built the complex settlement may have been
around much earlier than first believed.
The site, its age and designs are,
however, popular with so-called pseudo-
archaeology theories, including the idea that
it might have been constructed by an ancient
alien civilisation. Whatever the theories,
the Bakoni Ruins supplement the more
provable theories surrounding the Cradle of
Humankind in the North West province that
the southern region of Africa was inhabited
by early humans much earlier in prehistory
than first thought.
 www.brandsouthafrica.com
FEATURE FIVE GLOBALLY IMPORTANT ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES IN AFRICA FEATUREFIVE GLOBALLY IMPORTANT ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES IN AFRICA
O.R. TAMBO 1917 - 2017
  IN HIS FOOTSTEPS ...
PASSION·  PATRIOTISM·  INTEGRITY·  HUMILITY
www.dirco.gov.za
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Great Zimbabwe Stone Houses,
Masvingo, Zimbabwe
Bakoni, Ruins, South Africa

62 63
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
T
he year of Oliver Reginald
Tambo 2017 asks of us to
deeply interrogate how we are
using our efforts to achieve
unity and eradicate inequality
in our society. His commitment
to this vision for his country is aptly tied to our
Transformation and unity
crucial for a sustainable
tourism sector
Tourism has been identified as a major economic driver in South Africa and
other countries across the world. In 2015, South Africa’s travel and tourism
industry directly supported 703 000 jobs, which translated into 4,5% of the
total employment rate
.
By Sisa Ntshona
Chief Executive Officer, SA Tourism
journey as one of the key players in the tourism
sector. We understand that the realisation of
his vision in our space demands of us to set
the economic inclusivity and transformation
agenda in all our efforts and engagements.
The drive to eradicate unemployment and
inequality in all industries lies in our ability
as South Africans, the public and the private
sector at large, to realise that there is an urgent
need for creating jobs at a faster rate. But,
there is no creation of jobs without the actual
growing of the economy. Unemployment is
sitting at 27,1% of the population, meaning
that there are approximately 500 000 potential
entrepreneurs that should be brought into the
economic fold. Transformation and economic
inclusivity require the absorption and the
enablement of new these players into the
field.
The responsibility is, just like opportunities
abound, to step out of the mundane and
adopt a radical and structural shift in how we
approach economic development and growth.
The crux of our transformation agenda
at South African Tourism rests on: How do
we get more black people to participate
in the tourism sector, both through their
businesses (especially small, medium and
micro enterprises [SMMEs]) and by travelling
around the country; and what are the existing
systematic barriers in the sector needing to
be flattened. Both these require deliberate
interventions. And these interventions
require a concerted and collaborative effort
from all players: associations, established
businesses, private and public partners as
well as aspirant new players.
Tourism has been identified as a major
economic driver in South Africa and other
countries across the world. In 2015, South
Africa’s travel and tourism industry directly
supported 703 000 jobs, which translated into
4,5% of the total employment rate.
President Jacob Zuma, in his State of the
Nation Address in February 2017, mentioned
that tourism was one of the focus areas in the
Nine-Point Plan to reignite growth so that our
economy can create much-needed jobs. This
focus is deserved, acknowledging that tourist
arrival numbers for the period of January to
December 2016 increased to nine million, an
increase of just over one million arrivals from
2015, representing a 13% growth in tourist
arrivals.
This I believe can move into a double digit
figure if there is a fundamental shift.
We too are mindful that South Africa’s
tourism sector, in order to surpass this, needs
to adopt a developmental and capacity-
building approach to thrive, and this has to
come from the industry as a whole, not just
government.
In staying true to our economic inclusivity
and transformation agenda, at South African
Tourism we continuously forge partnerships
FEATURETRANSFORMATION AND UNITY CRUCIAL FOR A SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SECTOR
In staying true to our economic
inclusivity and transformation agenda, at
South African Tourism we continuously
forge partnerships with various
organisations that provide SMMEs
in the tourism sector with intensive
training, mentoring and upskilling
required to help make their business
grow.
with various organisations that provide
SMMEs in the tourism sector with intensive
training, mentoring and upskilling required to
help make their business grow.
We also provide market access
opportunities for these businesses through
our strategic exhibitions to be showcased,
marketed and enjoyed by different markets
around the world. There is great untapped
potential to groom new entrants and make
this a diverse, vibrant and multifaceted
tourism economy.
Ours is to work at growing this tourism pie
and not splitting the little that exists. Here
at home, we need to inculcate the value of
tourism and get people to see it as a matter of
national pride, something to experience and
engage with. Once we get people – ordinary
people like you and I – to travel our country,
then we will understand that our role in this
sector is immense.
Unity, the eradication of inequality and
transformation need to be deliberately
addressed in order to be sustainable.

64 65
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATUREBUSINESS TOURISM THRIVING AND MORE TO COMEFEATURE BUSINESS TOURISM THRIVING AND MORE TO COME
M
eetings Africa 2017
was held at the
Sandton Convention
Centre, Johannesburg,
from 27 February to
1 March 2017. It is
South Africa’s premier business tourism event
and mirrored the success and achievement of
the tourism industry in 2016.  Meetings Africa
is an important event on South Africa’s tourism
calendar. It is driven by a determination to raise
the volumes for business and leisure tourism
on the African continent. It is a key lever for
the economic success of all our countries and
for the well-being of all our people.
Every product and service on offer there
represented opportunity: opportunities to
Business tourism thriving
and more to come
The United Nations World Tourism Organisation is
confident that international tourist arrivals in Africa
will grow by between 5% and 6% in 2017
.
By the Department of Tourism World Tourism Organisation is confident that
international tourist arrivals in Africa will grow
by between 5% and 6% in 2017.
Travel and tourism now contribute around
3,3% to Africa’s gross domestic product and
supports over nine million jobs directly, or 3%
of total employment. The World Travel and
Tourism Council forecasts that the number of
jobs in tourism will grow this year.
The Department of Tourism is committed
to working together with colleagues in sister
countries to capture a greater share of
international conferences and events.
Tourism is experiencing healthy growth in
South Africa – international tourist arrivals
broke through the 10-million mark last year.
Arrivals from our sister countries in Africa
grew by 11%, while overseas arrivals grew by
a remarkable 18%.
Tourism is a significant economic sector
around the world, and it now comprises 30%
of all global service exports. About 1,2 billion
international tourists travelled the world in
2016, and this trend is likely to continue
in the years to come. By working together
and packaging Africa's unique offer more
effectively, a very significant share of these
travellers will visit these shores.
In the Budget Speech on 22 February,
the former Minister of Finance, Pravin
Gordhan, announced that the Department
of Tourism had been allocated an additional
R494 million to promote tourism over the
next three years. This allocation indicated
government’s confidence in the great potential
of the sector to grow, to support more jobs
and small businesses, and to continue
making such a meaningful contribution to the
economy through our diverse value chain.
This money will be used wisely and
effectively to promote tourism in a way that
achieves inclusive, transformative growth.
South Africa already has a vibrant,
established local travel industry. Leisure
tourism and the business events industry
hold massive potential to play an even more
meaningful role in the economic transformation
of South Africa and the continent.
Business events are already making an
impact on the South African economy.
The South Africa National Convention
Bureau commissioned an extensive three-
year study to determine the economic
value of the business events industry.
The estimated total direct spend of
domestic and international travellers to
South Africa in the next five years – including
business travellers.
There is so much untapped potential for the
entire African continent to grow as a premier
destination for business events.
It’s time for Africa to show its immense
value to the rest of the world as a business
event destination. We must strike while the
iron is hot. It’s an exciting and invigorating
space to be in, with lots of good news coming
out of tourism. As part of the increased budget
allocation, National Treasury has approved a
Bidding Fund to help attract more business
events to South Africa. This groundbreaking
fund will enable the country to bid aggressively
for international association conferences,
meetings, incentives and exhibitions.
National Treasury has allocated R20 million
for the next financial year (2017/18) and
R90 million for the following three years for
the Bidding Fund. The fund will be a catalyst
that propels the business events industry to a
higher league.
It will enable the National Convention
Bureau and provincial and city convention
bureaus to support bidding processes, and
will greatly enhance South Africa’s chances
of winning the rights to host business events.
African regional meetings and conferences
have been identified as potential quick wins,
and the Bidding Fund will give the department
muscle to attract them.
The fund will focus on business events
that are aligned with the priority economic
sectors that government has identified for
development. These include manufacturing,
mining and metals, business process
outsourcing, creative industries, life sciences
and information and communications
technology. Hosting major events in these
sectors will reap rich macro-economic
benefits for South Africa.
The Bidding Fund will also help boost
delegate numbers at conferences and
meetings that have already been secured.
Research shows that delegates want to
experience South Africa’s attractions before
and after the events they attend here. They
must be enticed to come here earlier, stay
longer and bring more people with them to
experience South Africa's abundant tourism
offerings. The fund will help attract these high-
value business tourists; so it’s a giant step
forward for the business event industry, and
for tourism.
do more business, opportunities to create
linkages to an extended value chain – food
and wine, creative and cultural industries –
and real opportunities for tourism to make a
greater impact on South Africa and the African
continent.
Africa is on the rise. Africa is innovating.
Africa is at the forefront of scientific endeavour.
Africa is constructing the most powerful radio
telescope in the world, which will generate
discoveries and new knowledge on a massive
scale. In 2016, 58 million international tourists
arrived in Africa – an increase of 8% over
2015.
Sub-Saharan Africa led the growth, with an
11% increase, and there has been a gradual
recovery in North Africa. The United Nations
business tourists in South Africa was
R42,4 billion in 2015. This is big money – more
than R40 billion injected into the economy
from one niche segment of tourism in a single
year. And it is growing.
It is estimated that meetings, incentives,
conventions and exhibitions supported about
280 000 direct and indirect jobs in South Africa
in 2015. This includes jobs in the transport,
infrastructure and other sectors. It comes at a
time when creating jobs is one of the biggest
challenges facing South Africa.
Some of the other interesting findings show
that:
• The United States is South Africa’s
largest source market for business-
event delegates, making up 12,5% of
the total in 2015. The United Kingdom,
Turkey, Nigeria, India and Australia
also feature strongly in hosting
business events here.
• Of all the business delegates coming
to South Africa, about one-third travel
around the country to experience
some of its many attractions. This
trend boosts the leisure tourism
industry.
• Most business delegates –– about
40% – are aged between 35 and
44 years. The likelihood of a return
visit with family and friends is very
high.
• Destinations such as Pilanesberg,
Hermanus, Kruger National Park,
Namaqualand, Sun City, Soweto,
the Drakensberg and Port Elizabeth
are starting to feature strongly on
the leisure itineraries of delegates
attending business events.
• More business events are being held
outside the major centres. This is an
encouraging trend, because we want
to spread tourism geographically
across all regions of the country, so
that venues and communities in some
of the lesser-known areas also benefit
from tourism.
These insights into how the business events
segment is developing can help spur it on to
even greater heights.
Government is working in close partnership
with the private sector to enable new
entrants to come in and contribute to the
tourism industry’s diversity. In particular,
the department is focussing on upskilling
small tourism enterprises that create jobs,
especially for the youth and women living in
South Africa’s rural areas.
These efforts support government's “5 in
5” strategy to attract five million additional

66 67
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
W
hen we talk about
impediments
to national and
African growth and
development, the
list of challenges is
endless. These include the youth dividend
and being able to leverage this meaningfully
for development: water, food and energy
security; climate change; leadership; quality
healthcare; and most importantly, inclusive
growth and development.
It is often said that we must collectively
stop lamenting the challenges and begin to
implement our plans and programmes to
ensure that we can turn these challenges into
opportunities to enable Africa to take its place,
as a developed continent and economy,
among the global community of nations.
In Africa, we have Agenda 2063 – the
continent’s first long-term plan for socio-
economic development. In South Africa,
we have the National Development Plan
(NDP). The continent’s development will be
built on the growth and development of all
55 countries. Our NDP must therefore be
implemented with deeper vigour and focus.
We must, in addition, begin to increasingly
base our plans on knowledge-based
trends and analyses. To this end, the
Human Sciences Research Council has
just concluded its Seventh Annual African
Unity for Renaissance Conference, which
brought together academics from around the
continent to deliberate on the research trends
and outcomes on a range of developmental
issues. More than 100 established and
emerging African researchers and scholars
deliberated on emerging theories and practice
in the fields of sustainable development,
science and technology, green economy and
Knowledge-based solutions
to Africa’s challenges
Knowledge derived from research outputs can
drive innovation, which is described as the ability to
translate research outputs into social innovations,
novel products, processes and methods
.
By Manusha Pillai
Director: Stakeholder Relations and Communications
Human Sciences Research Council
renewable energy, economics, environment
and systems science.
Knowledge derived from research outputs
can drive innovation, which is described as
the ability to translate research outputs into
social innovations, novel products, processes
and methods. Herein will lie durable solutions
to some of our most persistent challenges
which are only gaining in intensity.
Although we are making progress in
developing the knowledge base to support
these solutions, work remains to be done.
Analyses of African outputs indicate that the
number of research papers with at least one
African author published in scientific journals
has quadrupled from 1996 to 2012 while at
the same time the share of the world’s articles
with African authors increased from 1,2% to
2,3%.
In South Africa during the 2015/16 period,
7 158 web of science publications originated
from National Research Foundation-funded
South African researchers, an increase of
10,3% from the previous year.
These figures can increase if the right
investments are made in our human capital.
We should not, however, be merely chasing
the numbers of graduates, publications or
papers.
The value of our academic investments
must lie in the development of our continental
intellectual and human capital to drive the
solutions we so urgently require.
Recognising this, and with a view to
bringing young minds into the conversation
to enable their contribution to the solutions
we must develop, and more importantly,
implement, the 2017 conference included a
PhD Colloquium.  It also served as a capacity-
building and skills-transfer opportunity
with more established researchers and
FEATURE KNOWLEDGE-BASED SOLUTIONS TO AFRICA’S CHALLENGES
academics engaging with younger emerging
social scientists.
While the PhD is acknowledged as the
best qualification for individuals in high-end
research roles, it is equally known that we are
not leveraging our youth dividend to produce
sufficient numbers of such graduates who
can lead our journey towards a knowledge
economy which can benefit the almost one
billion citizens on the continent.
In this regard, at the beginning of 2015,
South Africa was producing about 38 PhD
graduates per million of its population while
most developed countries produced well over
100 PhDs per million.
This number was even lower in Africa. By
increasing the numbers of PhDs, particularly
at public education institutions, Africa will not
only be able to increase its research capacity
but also be better positioned to train the next
generation of researchers.
Knowing what we know, are we willing to
walk the walk and support the development of
our human capital resources?
More importantly, will we value our human
and intellectual capital and mobilise these to
drive our collective development?
At the inauguration of the Organisation
of African Unity in 1963, Kwame Nkrumah
articulated his vision of Africa: “We shall
accumulate machinery and establish steel
works, iron foundries and factories; we shall
link the various states of our continent with
communications; we shall astound the world
with our hydroelectric power; we shall drain
marshes and swamps, clear infested areas,
feed the undernourished, and rid our people
of parasites and disease.
It is within the possibility of science and
technology to make even the Sahara bloom
into a vast field with verdant vegetation for
agricultural and industrial developments”.
Fifty-four years, later these words remain a
vision.
Investing in, harnessing and promoting our
intellectual and human capital can move this
vision closer to reality.

Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063 is gaining momentum. It is time for action.
Be part of the transformation!
Our Aspirations for the Africa We Want
A prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development
An integrated continent, politically united, and based on the ideals of Pan Africanism
An Africa of good governance, respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law
A peaceful and secure Africa
An Africa with a strong cultural identity, Common Heritage, values and ethics
An Africa whose development is people-driven, relying on the potential offered by
African People, particularly its women and youth, and with well cared for children
Africa as a strong, united and influential global player and partner
Twitter: @_AfricanUnion, #Agenda2063          Facebook: AfricanUnionCommission          Website: www.agenda2063.au.int
Email: agenda2063@africa-union.org         Tel: +251 115 513 822         Fax: +251 115 519 321        Address: African Union Commission
P . O. Box 3243          Roosevelt Street          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The Africa We Want single pg spread Ubuntu.indd   1 5/8/15   4:53 PM
Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063 is gaining momentum. It is time for action.
Be part of the transformation!
Our Aspirations for the Africa We Want
A prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development
An integrated continent, politically united, and based on the ideals of Pan Africanism
An Africa of good governance, respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law
A peaceful and secure Africa
An Africa with a strong cultural identity, Common Heritage, values and ethics
An Africa whose development is people-driven, relying on the potential offered by
African People, particularly its women and youth, and with well cared for children
Africa as a strong, united and influential global player and partner
Twitter: @_AfricanUnion, #Agenda2063          Facebook: AfricanUnionCommission          Website: www.agenda2063.au.int
Email: agenda2063@africa-union.org         Tel: +251 115 513 822         Fax: +251 115 519 321        Address: African Union Commission
P . O. Box 3243          Roosevelt Street          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The Africa We Want single pg spread Ubuntu.indd   1 5/8/15   4:53 PM
66 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

68 69
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
T
he Design Indaba Conference,
which is held annually in Cape
Town, is a three-day showcase
of the world’s best creative
minds, providing endless
inspiration, new perspectives
and universal solutions.
The conference has been the highlight of
South Africa’s creative calendar since 1995,
and has not only contributed vastly to uplifting
the South African design sector, but has also
been named the best design conference in
the world.
This year’s conference was held from 1 to
3 March.
Each year, the Design Indaba’s search
for the Most Beautiful Object in South Africa
for the year challenges notions of beauty in
design, asking the public to vote for the best
of 10 nominations.
The Most Beautiful Object in South Africa
is an annual competition aimed at facilitating
discussions around beauty and the public’s
perception of it. Ten celebrity influencers
nominate what they think is the Most Beautiful
The Most Beautiful
Object in South Africa
The conference has been the highlight of South Africa’s creative calendar since
1995, and has not only contributed vastly to uplifting the South African design
sector, but has also been named the best design conference in the world
.
Object in South Africa, and the public then
vote for their favourite object.
Last year, nominators like fashion designer
Sindiso Khumalo and television presenter
Katlego Maboe nominated the Kassena
Town Cabinets by Dokter & Misses and the
See-Saw-Do social enterprise, respectively.
However, it was the shawl created by Laduma
Ngxokolo that took top honours. In 2015,
it went to the Boomslang in Kirstenbosch
National Botanical Garden.
This year’s winner was textile designer
Nkuli Mlangeni’s beautiful Sankara Rug.
The rug, which was inspired by Ndebele
patterns and the Reed Dance, was woven
using traditional methods by local artisans. It
was important to Mlangeni that she created a
modern, culture-rich design that still managed
to celebrate and promote the traditional art of
weaving.
Bielle Bellingham, Afro-optimist and
Creative Director of Cordova Productions,
nominated the Sankara Rug. The piece
was designed by Mlangeni, founder of The
Ninevites, a collaborative project and platform
to explore and celebrate black aesthetics.
Bellingham said that the unique rug elegantly
weaved tradition and the future, craft
techniques and technology, “Africaness” and
global appeal.
The other nominations and nominators
were:
• Artwell Nwaila nominated the
Kariba animated film trailer by Blue
Forest Collective. The founder
of the award-winning platform
SA Creatives, Artwell Nwaila, threw
his weight behind Blue Forest’s
Kariba, a viral teaser created ahead
of a feature length film that promises
to be completed in 2017. Based
on a graphic novel that harnesses
both mythology and history, Kariba
has captured the imaginations of
storytellers around the world. “I think
it’s fascinating how few seconds of
beautifully crafted animated material
have sparked so much excitement.
I also love the African story that is
being told,” said Nwaila.
• Arye Kellman nominated The
Hawker’s Rocking Chair by Thebe
Magugu and Emile Millward. The
women selling their wares in downtown
Johannesburg inspired renowned
fashion designer Thebe Magugu to
create The Hawker’s Rocking Chair.
In collaboration with craftsman Emile
Millward, Magugu designed a chair
that ties into his fashion range in a
poetic way. Its nominator, creative
director and radio broadcaster at
Cliff Central, Arye Kellman, says that
the crossing of disciplines creates
a seamlessly integrated message,
which “exercises non-confined
creativity in its purest form”.
• Victor Dlamini nominated the
Moroccan Magic Dress by Nandi
Mngoma and Inga Madyibi. Writer and
photographer Dlamini believed that
the subtle hues of the Moroccan Magic
Dress put it in the running for the Most
Beautiful Object in South Africa. The
Moroccan Magic Dress is an example
of delicate sensibility. According to its
designers, it’s a singular look that is
at once fresh, feminine and reinforces
the importance of collaboration.
• Roger Ballen nominated the Rockpool
Coffee Table by Caroline Vieira. The
ceramic tabletop is one of a series
of platters and tiles that play on the
“rockpool” theme. Using her signature
combination of oxides and glazes atop
a ceramic surface, Vieira replicated
the movement of seawater and foam
over a rock surface to create this
distinctive piece.
• Siba Mtongana nominated the Indalo
Backpack by Inga Gubeka. Celebrity
chef Mtongana found the utmost
beauty in what media sources
described as one of the most unique
and interesting products in the
country. The wooden cylindrical
backpack called the Indalo Backpack
was designed by Eastern Cape
entrepreneur Inga Gubeka. All
Gubeka’s products are made out of
eco-friendly woods and leathers.
• Media entrepreneur and presenter Jo-
Ann Strauss nominated the Butterfly
Wall Installation by KwaZulu-Natal
artist Mark Rautenbach. Inspired by
the concept of a late 19th century
industrial, classy gentlemen’s
club, the installation is made up of
entomological specimen boxes that
explore the relationship between
the sweetness of butterflies and the
destructive nature of fire. The Butterfly
Wall resides in Luke Dale-Robert’s
newest restaurant, The Shortmarket
Club.
• Alinah Seloane Missouri nominated
Gqama Ntyatyambo by Loyiso Mkize.
Director of ASM Fashion Consultancy,
Missouri’s career has been shaped
by her love for fine design. Visual
artist Mkize’s surreal artworks had
caught her eye. When he isn’t working
on Kwezi, South Africa’s first black
superhero comic book, he is creating
multimedia works such as “Gqama
Ntyatyambo” that explores the
complex nature of African culture.
• Hanneke Schutte nominated the
Joe Slovo West community project
by Kevin Kimwelle. Love Story, a
non-governmental organisation in
FEATURE
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL OBJECT IN SOUTH AFRICA FEATURETHE MOST BEAUTIFUL OBJECT IN SOUTH AFRICA
Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape,
launched a project to help build a
crèche in the impoverished community
of Joe Slovo. Designed and built
by the architect studio Collectif
Saga, in partnership with Indalo and
Love Story, the new crèche is an
example of how “innovative thinking,
collaboration and beautiful design
can transform the lives of an entire
community,” said its nominator.
• Johannesburg-based artist Nakhane
Toure nominated a sculpture by
renowned artist Mohau Modisakeng.
The piece was crafted to represent
Modisakeng’s own likeness and forms
part of a larger travelling series, Lefa
La Ntate, that features self-portraiture
and a full-length sculpture.

70 71
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
i
FEATURE AFRICAN FILMMAKERS DISCUSS THE STATE OF AFRICAN CINEMA FEATUREAFRICAN FILMMAKERS DISCUSS THE STATE OF AFRICAN CINEMA
African filmmakers discuss
the state of African
cinema
By Romaana Naidoo
Media Club South Africa
F
ive of Africa’s top independent
filmmakers participated in a
discussion panel at the 2017
RapidLion South African
International Film Festival,
sharing their thoughts on the
state of African cinema and its future.
From 5 to 12 March 2017, the RapidLion
South African International Film Festival
showcased the best films and filmmakers
of Africa, its Diaspora, and BRICS (Brazil,
Russia, India, China and South Africa)
members at the Market Theatre in Newtown,
Johannesburg.
The festival included screenings of
films and documentaries, as well as panel
discussions and an awards ceremony. The
workshops focussed on deepening mutual
understanding, strengthening collaborative
relations and exploring opportunities for
growth and investment in the filmmaking
industry.
Brand South Africa partnered with
RapidLion to celebrate African filmmaking,
Brand South Africa partnered with RapidLion to
celebrate African filmmaking, particularly South
African cinema
.
audiences responded well to uplifting,
optimistic storytelling even when dealing
with difficult themes. Gukas said the most
prevalent challenge to making great African
cinema was overcoming the “white saviour
complex” in films. Not only did the notion of
idealising Western convention over realistic
African stories impact the way the world sees
the continent, more importantly, watching
“Hollywood heroes” coming to Africa’s rescue
impacted the way African audiences see
themselves.
From a marketing point of view, panellists
agreed that filmmakers and audiences
needed access to more platforms to see
diverse products from small, independent
African filmmakers who often got lost in the
larger global cinema marketing machine.
More specialised film festivals were also
needed with better access to online video
platforms to get the word out and create a
buzz around films, no matter how small, and
to boosts audiences.
How to make African cinema world class
Wrapping up the panel, Miyeni asked the
filmmakers how the African film industry could
compete with international film markets.
Joshua said that even with the exceptional
technical skills the continent had built up
being told through a more Western/European
lens, African filmmakers, he said, had a
responsibility to represent the continent and
its people more accurately. Filmmakers also
needed to find the stories that have yet to be
told, and take those stories to the world.
Mboussou concurred, aptly using an
African proverb – “until lions are able to
tell the story, hunters will always be the
winners” – to encourage the sharing of ideas
and knowledge between the continent’s
filmmakers and finding common ground to get
more African stories told globally.
Musah, as American-Ghanaian, said it
was important to get the stories he told right
through diligent, honest research.
Gukas reiterated that African stories
needed not fulfil conventional Western film
narratives, but focussed on the human
experience. “Africans can find any story to tell,
good or bad, as long as it was mindful of the
right sensibilities and responsibilities of telling
those stories.”
Joshua, who with Skollie  attempted to tell
a different kind of story about South Africa’s
coloured community, said it was important to
get the narratives right through cooperation
and collaboration with the community whose
stories filmmakers were attempting to tell.
What challenges exist within African
cinema?
Miyeni asked panellists what they considered
were the issues negatively impacting African
storytelling in film.
Across the board, the panel agreed that
combating African stereotypes in film was
imperative.
Musah said as a filmmaker working in
Africa and the United States of America,
it was a difficult to not be influenced by the
usual Western film tropes that characterised
Africa in film. His role as filmmaker, in general,
was to fight clichés and champion realism in
the stories he told.
Moloi said that filmmakers, particularly
documentarians, needed to treat their
subjects with respect. Joshua added that
even though it was sometimes challenging
to find a positive angle in telling real stories,
71
particularly South African cinema. Under the
theme of Inspiring New Ways, the partnership
aimed at soliciting ideas and perspectives
from filmmakers and industry players on how
African – and the South African Nation Brand
– stories can be communicated in visual form,
through compelling storytelling.
During a panel chaired by festival director
Eric Miyeni, a diverse group of African
directors spoke about their experiences
working in the industry, promoting their films
to a global audience and finding the spirit of
true African storytelling.
The discussion focussed specifically
around the theme of How Should Cinema
Reflect Africa Today?
The five filmmakers were:
• David Mboussou, Gabonese director
of the documentary series, I am
Congo.
• Arthur Musah, United States (US)-
based, Ghana-born documentary
maker. His film, Naija Beta, follows
Nigerian undergraduates returning
home to host a robotics summer camp
for high schools.
• South African documentarian Vincent
Moloi. His documentary, Skulls of
My People,  is an in-depth look at
the history of German colonialism in
Namibia and its effect on the country’s
indigenous people.
• Steve Gukas, Nigerian director of the
highly praised Ebola drama, 93 Days,
which stars Danny Glover.
• South Africa’s Daryne Joshua, director
of the critically acclaimed prison
drama, Noem My Skollie.
Combating the legacy of Western
voyeurism
Miyeni opened the discussion, highlighting
the challenges of being an African filmmaker
attempting to take African stories to the rest
of the world. With a legacy of these stories
The feature film, Noem My Skollie, was South Africa’s official selection to the 89th Annual
Academy Awards in the category for Best Foreign Language Film Award.
The film tells the story of a young man in 1960s Cape Town who ends up in jail and barters
his skills as a storyteller to avoid being forced into the number gangs. It is based on the life
of the scriptwriter John W Fredericks who is now 70 years old. This is a heart-lifting story of
redemption that sends the audience on an action-filled roller coaster with a massive emotional
impact. It is a film that delves with great authenticity into the culture of the coloured people of the
Western Cape but it is a film for all to enjoy regardless of colour, creed or language.
www.timeslive.co.za
over the last few years, a focus must now be on
writing and storytelling. While finding resources
was easy – “all it takes is a pen and a page”–
nurturing African writers with good, original and
diverse stories was important.
Moloi repeated a call for not only finding new
markets for African film, but to create our own
markets. “Embrace new media, like online video
sharing,” and find ways to control the editorial
direction of the art form.
Also, as agreed by the entire panel, new
funding models needed to be found that
emphasised content over commerce.
Movie fans, journalists, bloggers and other
influencers need to “be champions of African film
and stories”, said Gukas. This kind of exposure
will change the narrative of the African film
industry and change global attitudes. The films
are slowly being made, the world just needs to
be told about them.
From a technical standpoint, Musah thought
specialisation was key. “Perfect the craft, find new
ways of doing things using the tools available.”

72 73
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
16 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 10
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
,YE[IMMWEKPSFEPPIEHIVSJ-RJSVQEXMSRERH
'SQQYRMGEXMSRW8IGLRSPSK]-'8WSPYXMSRW'SRXMRYSYWP]
MRRSZEXMRKFEWIHSRGYWXSQIVRIIHW[IEVIGSQQMXXIH
XSIRLERGMRKGYWXSQIVI\TIVMIRGIWERHGVIEXMRKQE\MQYQ
ZEPYIJSVXIPIGSQWGEVVMIVWIRXIVTVMWIWERHGSRWYQIVW
3YVXIPIGSQWRIX[SVOIUYMTQIRX-RJSVQEXMSR8IGLRSPSK]
-8TVSHYGXWERHWSPYXMSRWERHWQEVXHIZMGIWEVIYWIHMR
GSYRXVMIWERHVIKMSRW,YE[IMVEROIHXLSRXLI
+PSFEP*SVXYRIFEWIHSRMXWVIZIRYIMR-R
XLIGSQTER]´WVIZIRYIVIEGLIHETTVS\MQEXIP]
97(FMPPMSR
;IMRZIWXSZIV	SJSYVERRYEPWEPIWVIZIRYIMRXS
VIWIEVGLERHHIZIPSTQIRX6
(ERHQSVIXLER	SJ
SYVIQTPS]IIWIRKEKIMR6
(0IZIVEKMRKSYV
I\TIVMIRGIERHI\TIVXMWIMRXLI-'8WIGXSV[ILIPTFVMHKI
XLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIERHTVSQSXILMKLUYEPMX]FVSEHFERH
GSRRIGXMZMX]JSVEPP%WEREHZSGEXISJWSGMSIGSRSQMG
WYWXEMREFMPMX][IQEOIIZIV]IJJSVXXSWYTTSVXWIGYVI
ERHWXEFPIRIX[SVOSTIVEXMSRWERHLIPTGYWXSQIVWERH
MRHYWXVMIWMQTVSZIIJ½GMIRG]XSHVMZIPS[GEVFSRIGSRSQMG
KVS[XL&]PSGEPMWMRKSYVSTIVEXMSRWERHFYMPHMRKEKPSFEP
ZEPYIGLEMR[ILIPTPSGEPMRRSZEXSVWQE\MQMWIXLIMVKPSFEP
ZEPYIERHWLEVI[MR[MRSYXGSQIW
%FIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPHMWSRXLILSVM^SR;SVOMRK
GPSWIP][MXLTEVXRIVW[IIRHIEZSYVXSFYMPHERIJ½GMIRX
ERHMRXIKVEXIHHMKMXEPPSKMWXMGWW]WXIQ[LMGL[MPPIRLERGI
MRXIVGSRRIGXMZMX]ERHMRXIVEGXMZMX]¯FIX[IIRTISTPI
ERHTISTPITISTPIERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKW¯XS
WTEVOMR½RMXISTTSVXYRMXMIWERHTSXIRXMEPJSVIZIV]SRI
IZIV][LIVIERHXSQSZIXLI[SVPHJSV[EVH
&YMPHMRKEFIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPH
+VS[MRK[MXL%JVMGE
-R%JVMGE,YE[IMLEWIWXEFPMWLIHXLVIIVIKMSREP
LIEHUYEVXIVWREQIP]2SVXLIVR%JVMGE;IWXIVR
%JVMGE)EWXIVRERH7SYXLIVR%JVMGE8LIWIVIKMSRW
GSRWMWXSJWYFWMHMEVMIWGSZIVMRKQSVIXLER
GSYRXVMIW;ILEZIWIZIRGIRXVIWTVSZMHMRKXVEMRMRK
XSQSVIXLERXVEMRIIWERRYEPP]-RXSXEP
,YE[IMIQTPS]IIWSJ[LSQ	EVIPSGEPIQTPS]IIW
GSRXVMFYXIXSWIXYTLEPJSJXLI[MVIPIWWFEWIWXEXMSRW
ERHOQSJSTXMGEP½FVISRXLIGSRXMRIRX
Corporate citizenship
,YE[IM´WOI]WXVEXIKMIWMR%JVMGEMRGPYHIGYWXSQIV
GIRXVMGKVIIRMRRSZEXMSRERHWSGMEPVIWTSRWMFMPMX]
,YE[IMMWGSQQMXXIHXSFIMRKEKPSFEPP]VIWTSRWMFPI
GSVTSVEXIGMXM^IRGSRXVMFYXMRKXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJHMJJIVIRXGEXIKSVMIWMRGPYHMRKXLI
IRZMVSRQIRXLIEPXLIHYGEXMSRERHGSQQYRMX]
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy and
Management
,YE[IMMWHIHMGEXIHXSIRWYVMRKXLEXEPPTISTPI
GERIRNS]XLIFEWMGVMKLXWSJGSQQYRMGEXMSRWERH
MRJSVQEXMSRWIVZMGIW(YVMRKSYVGSQQIVGMEPEGXMZMXMIW
[IEPWSEXXEGLKVIEXMQTSVXERGIXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJWSGMIX]ERHXLIIRZMVSRQIRX
ERHGSRXMRYSYWP]IRVMGLMRKTISTPI´WPMZIWXLVSYKL
GSQQYRMGEXMSRW

Bridging the digital divide
,YE[IMETTPMIWMXWTVSJIWWMSREPI\TIVMIRGIMRXLI-8
½IPHXSFVMHKIXLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIWSXLEXTISTPIGERIRNS]
GSQQYRMGEXMSRWWIVZMGIWERHI\TIVMIRGIWER]XMQI
ER][LIVIXLVSYKLER]XIVQMREP
Environmental protection
)RZMVSRQIRXEPHIXIVMSVEXMSRERHEGGIPIVEXIHKPSFEP
[EVQMRKLEZITSWIHKVIEXGLEPPIRKIWXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJXLI[SVPHIGSRSQ]-RXLIXIPIGSQW
MRHYWXV]IRIVK]WEZMRKERHIQMWWMSRVIHYGXMSR
QIEWYVIWLEZIFIGSQIMQTIVEXMZI
Supply chain
,YE[IMMRWMWXWSRIXLMGEPERHKVIIRTVSGYVIQIRX
ETTVSEGLIWERHMQTVSZIW'76QEREKIQIRXMRMXWWYTTP]
GLEMRXSIRWYVIXLEXTVSHYGXTVSGYVIQIRXQIIXW'76
VIUYMVIQIRXWERHVIEPMWIWSYVWXVEXIKMGKSEPW
UBUNTU Huawei advertorial .indd   All Pages 2015/11/24   10:33 AM
UBUNTU_MAGAZINE-10 .indd   16 2015/11/25   12:45 PM
17Issue 10 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
,YE[IMMWEKPSFEPPIEHIVSJ-RJSVQEXMSRERH
'SQQYRMGEXMSRW8IGLRSPSK]-'8WSPYXMSRW'SRXMRYSYWP]
MRRSZEXMRKFEWIHSRGYWXSQIVRIIHW[IEVIGSQQMXXIH
XSIRLERGMRKGYWXSQIVI\TIVMIRGIWERHGVIEXMRKQE\MQYQ
ZEPYIJSVXIPIGSQWGEVVMIVWIRXIVTVMWIWERHGSRWYQIVW
3YVXIPIGSQWRIX[SVOIUYMTQIRX-RJSVQEXMSR8IGLRSPSK]
-8TVSHYGXWERHWSPYXMSRWERHWQEVXHIZMGIWEVIYWIHMR
GSYRXVMIWERHVIKMSRW,YE[IMVEROIHXLSRXLI
+PSFEP*SVXYRIFEWIHSRMXWVIZIRYIMR-R
XLIGSQTER]´WVIZIRYIVIEGLIHETTVS\MQEXIP]
97(FMPPMSR
;IMRZIWXSZIV	SJSYVERRYEPWEPIWVIZIRYIMRXS
VIWIEVGLERHHIZIPSTQIRX6
(ERHQSVIXLER	SJ
SYVIQTPS]IIWIRKEKIMR6
(0IZIVEKMRKSYV
I\TIVMIRGIERHI\TIVXMWIMRXLI-'8WIGXSV[ILIPTFVMHKI
XLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIERHTVSQSXILMKLUYEPMX]FVSEHFERH
GSRRIGXMZMX]JSVEPP%WEREHZSGEXISJWSGMSIGSRSQMG
WYWXEMREFMPMX][IQEOIIZIV]IJJSVXXSWYTTSVXWIGYVI
ERHWXEFPIRIX[SVOSTIVEXMSRWERHLIPTGYWXSQIVWERH
MRHYWXVMIWMQTVSZIIJ½GMIRG]XSHVMZIPS[GEVFSRIGSRSQMG
KVS[XL&]PSGEPMWMRKSYVSTIVEXMSRWERHFYMPHMRKEKPSFEP
ZEPYIGLEMR[ILIPTPSGEPMRRSZEXSVWQE\MQMWIXLIMVKPSFEP
ZEPYIERHWLEVI[MR[MRSYXGSQIW
%FIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPHMWSRXLILSVM^SR;SVOMRK
GPSWIP][MXLTEVXRIVW[IIRHIEZSYVXSFYMPHERIJ½GMIRX
ERHMRXIKVEXIHHMKMXEPPSKMWXMGWW]WXIQ[LMGL[MPPIRLERGI
MRXIVGSRRIGXMZMX]ERHMRXIVEGXMZMX]¯FIX[IIRTISTPI
ERHTISTPITISTPIERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKW¯XS
WTEVOMR½RMXISTTSVXYRMXMIWERHTSXIRXMEPJSVIZIV]SRI
IZIV][LIVIERHXSQSZIXLI[SVPHJSV[EVH
&YMPHMRKEFIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPH
+VS[MRK[MXL%JVMGE
-R%JVMGE,YE[IMLEWIWXEFPMWLIHXLVIIVIKMSREP
LIEHUYEVXIVWREQIP]2SVXLIVR%JVMGE;IWXIVR
%JVMGE)EWXIVRERH7SYXLIVR%JVMGE8LIWIVIKMSRW
GSRWMWXSJWYFWMHMEVMIWGSZIVMRKQSVIXLER
GSYRXVMIW;ILEZIWIZIRGIRXVIWTVSZMHMRKXVEMRMRK
XSQSVIXLERXVEMRIIWERRYEPP]-RXSXEP
,YE[IMIQTPS]IIWSJ[LSQ	EVIPSGEPIQTPS]IIW
GSRXVMFYXIXSWIXYTLEPJSJXLI[MVIPIWWFEWIWXEXMSRW
ERHOQSJSTXMGEP½FVISRXLIGSRXMRIRX
Corporate citizenship
,YE[IM´WOI]WXVEXIKMIWMR%JVMGEMRGPYHIGYWXSQIV
GIRXVMGKVIIRMRRSZEXMSRERHWSGMEPVIWTSRWMFMPMX]
,YE[IMMWGSQQMXXIHXSFIMRKEKPSFEPP]VIWTSRWMFPI
GSVTSVEXIGMXM^IRGSRXVMFYXMRKXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJHMJJIVIRXGEXIKSVMIWMRGPYHMRKXLI
IRZMVSRQIRXLIEPXLIHYGEXMSRERHGSQQYRMX]
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy and
Management
,YE[IMMWHIHMGEXIHXSIRWYVMRKXLEXEPPTISTPI
GERIRNS]XLIFEWMGVMKLXWSJGSQQYRMGEXMSRWERH
MRJSVQEXMSRWIVZMGIW(YVMRKSYVGSQQIVGMEPEGXMZMXMIW
[IEPWSEXXEGLKVIEXMQTSVXERGIXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJWSGMIX]ERHXLIIRZMVSRQIRX
ERHGSRXMRYSYWP]IRVMGLMRKTISTPI´WPMZIWXLVSYKL
GSQQYRMGEXMSRW

Bridging the digital divide
,YE[IMETTPMIWMXWTVSJIWWMSREPI\TIVMIRGIMRXLI-8
½IPHXSFVMHKIXLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIWSXLEXTISTPIGERIRNS]
GSQQYRMGEXMSRWWIVZMGIWERHI\TIVMIRGIWER]XMQI
ER][LIVIXLVSYKLER]XIVQMREP
Environmental protection
)RZMVSRQIRXEPHIXIVMSVEXMSRERHEGGIPIVEXIHKPSFEP
[EVQMRKLEZITSWIHKVIEXGLEPPIRKIWXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJXLI[SVPHIGSRSQ]-RXLIXIPIGSQW
MRHYWXV]IRIVK]WEZMRKERHIQMWWMSRVIHYGXMSR
QIEWYVIWLEZIFIGSQIMQTIVEXMZI
Supply chain
,YE[IMMRWMWXWSRIXLMGEPERHKVIIRTVSGYVIQIRX
ETTVSEGLIWERHMQTVSZIW'76QEREKIQIRXMRMXWWYTTP]
GLEMRXSIRWYVIXLEXTVSHYGXTVSGYVIQIRXQIIXW'76
VIUYMVIQIRXWERHVIEPMWIWSYVWXVEXIKMGKSEPW
UBUNTU Huawei advertorial .indd   All Pages 2015/11/24   10:33 AM
UBUNTU_MAGAZINE-10 .indd   17 2015/11/25   12:45 PM

74 75
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURE SA CHARITY WINS LAUREUS SPORT FOR GOOD AWARD FEATURESA CHARITY WINS LAUREUS SPORT FOR GOOD AWARD
i
Laureus is a global sports-based charity that works to improve the lives of young people.
The first Patron of Laureus was former President Nelson Mandela. At the inaugural
Laureus World Sports Awards in 2000, President Mandela said: “Sport has the power to
change the world. It has the power to unite people in a way that little else does. Sport can
awaken hope where there was previously only despair”. This has become the philosophy
of Laureus and the driving force behind its work.
Laureus combines Laureus Sport for Good, the Laureus World Sports Academy
and Ambassadors Programme and the Laureus World Sports Awards to form a unique
organisation that uses the inspirational power of sport as a force for good.
Laureus was founded by its patrons, Richemont and Daimler, and is supported by its
global partners, Mercedes-Benz and IWC Schaffhausen.
Since its inception, Laureus Sport for Good has raised over €100 million and supported
over 150 projects worldwide, which use sport to tackle violence, discrimination and
disadvantage. Laureus Sport for Good has helped to improve the lives of millions of young
people in over 35 countries and is proving that sport can change the world.
www.laureus.com
SA charity wins
Laureus Sport for
Good Award
The award was presented in front of a room
packed full of the world’s leading sport stars
who rose to their feet to applaud the accolade
.
I
n February 2017, the local charity, Waves
for Change (W4C), received the Laureus
Sport for Good Award presented by
HSH Princess Charlene of Monaco at
the annual Laureus World Sport Awards,
in Monaco.
The Laureus Sport for Good Award is
awarded to an organisation or individual who,
in the opinion of the members of the Laureus
World Sports Academy, has used the power
of sport to overcome violence, discrimination
or disadvantage. The academy believes W4C
has made an outstanding contribution to
society through the medium of sport; making
a significant impact on the lives of young
people through their surf therapy programme.
The award was presented in front of a room
packed full of the world’s leading sport stars
who rose to their feet to applaud the accolade.
Collected by a delighted Tim Conibear,
founding director of W4C, and Guyver
Ngeyake, assistant site manager at the W4C
Monwabisi Centre, Conibear spoke about the
honour of receiving the award:
“On behalf of the Waves for Change team
I want to say a huge thank you. The support
Laureus has given us over the years has been
invaluable, enabling us to develop the Waves
for Change Programme and establish surf
therapy as a legitimate way to help children
from unstable communities struggling with
mental health issues. Having this recognition
from Laureus reaffirms that what we are doing
is working and inspires us to keep growing our
efforts across the world.”
Sean Fitzpatrick, Chairperson of the
Laureus World Sports Academy, explained
the academy’s decision:
“The work being done by Tim and his team
at Waves for Change is inspirational to say
the least. Disadvantaged youth who are in
desperate need of support and direction are
given a new lease on life through surfing. It’s
an incredible success story and my fellow
academy members were inspired by the work
of the programme.”
W4C, which is supported by Laureus Sport
for Good, is pioneering surf therapy as a
way to help young people from violent and
unstable communities cope with the stress of
their lives. Post-traumatic stress is common
among South African youth but the W4C
programme provides safe spaces, access
to caring adults and weekly surf therapy
sessions, which in turn build confidence and
self-esteem in the children who participate,
helping making them resilient to the trauma
they face.
Since 2011, W4C has reached over
1 000 children and helped over 50 coaches
achieve qualifications and skills in surf
coaching, lifesaving, child protection, trauma
counselling and computer training. When the
programme first began, there were no female
participants; now one third of the children
taking part are girls.
Surfing has since become one of the most
popular sports in the township communities
and young people are becoming mentally and
physically healthier as a result.
The success of the programme has seen
the W4C operation expand from one site to
six – five in South Africa and one recently
launched in Liberia. W4C are dedicated
to continuing the work they do across
the globe, reaching communities where
mental health services are underresourced
or stigmatised.

www.sport24.co.za / www.waves-for-change.org

76 77
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
E
very year, the Global
Entrepreneurship Congress
(GEC) gathers together
thousands of entrepreneurs,
investors, researchers,
policymakers and other
start-up champions to identify new ways of
helping founders start and scale new ventures
around the world.
At the week-long GEC, delegates make
connections, gain insights, learn about new
research and leave ready to renew their
programmes, policy ideas or firm founder
skills.
South Africa hosted the 2017 GEC from
13 to 16 March 2017 in Johannesburg. This
was the first time this prestigious international
event for entrepreneurs was held on the
African continent. GEC 2017 provided
South Africa an opportunity to showcase its
entrepreneurial prowess to the world. More
than 6 000 delegates from 165 countries
attended.
Previous host cities include Medellín,
Milan, Moscow, Rio de Janeiro, Liverpool,
Shanghai, Dubai and Kansas City where it
was launched in 2009 by the Ewing Marion
Kauffman Foundation. The GEC featured
a wide variety of sessions to explore what’s
next in a variety of topic areas, such as:
• innovative entrepreneurship
education and support programmes
to create that entrepreneurial mindset
necessary to accelerate the growth of
high-potential startups
• the power of data to serve as both a
fuel for entrepreneurs as well as guide
to shape the policies that help them
flourish
SA hosts prestigious global
event for entrepreneurs
GEC 2017 provided South Africa an opportunity to showcase its
entrepreneurial prowess to the world. More than 6 000 delegates from
165 countries attended.
exploit digital innovation to bring improved
basic services to communities in remote rural
areas and impoverished urban settlements,”
he added.
Deputy President Ramaphosa said the
GEC was about networking and collaboration.
“It recognises that there is no such thing
as the ideal entrepreneur, just as there
is no single model for entrepreneurial
development. "But, there are common needs
and interests. This congress goes a long way
in connecting our entrepreneurs to the best
resources and networks.
 “It serves as an opportunity to enhance
an entrepreneurial culture among our youth,
women and people with disabilities and allows
us to share new developments in start-up
financing.
 “Ultimately, we must foster an African
Entrepreneurship Network where participants
will collaborate well beyond this event in
promoting intra-African trade.''
The Deputy President invited
entrepreneurs from the African continent and
the world to collaborate with entrepreneurs in
South Africa to start sustainable, profitable
businesses that would create jobs. “We
FEATURE
SA HOSTS PRESTIGIOUS GLOBAL EVENT FOR ENTREPRENEURS FEATURESA HOSTS PRESTIGIOUS GLOBAL EVENT FOR ENTREPRENEURS
• how start-ups are beginning to solve
major global challenges such as with
food and water
• identifying new trends in increasing
the availability of early-stage capital
• exploring efforts to unleash the
untapped potential of women and
youth and more.
Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa officially
opened the GEC on 14 March 2017, at the
Sandton Convention Centre.
He said the congress provided many
benefits for the African continent.
“It provides a unique opportunity for African
entrepreneurs to interact with potential global
partners; it enables entrepreneurs to engage
with policymakers and business leaders;
it is an avenue for mentorship, knowledge
exchange and investment; and showcases
African entrepreneurs, innovators and
inventors alongside their global counterparts.”
He said rapid changes ushered in by
technological advances were transforming
human experience and business culture
everywhere.
“The theme for this congress – 'Digital
Disruption' – is opportune and appropriate for
a continent that is a familiar with rapid change.
“We must recognise that digital disruption
is a cornerstone of a modern, diversified
economy. It is digital disruptors who redefine
the competitive landscape as they strengthen
knowledge-based economies,” Deputy
President Ramaphosa said.
“They enhance customer experiences of
products and services, offering something
fundamentally different and better. In Africa,
they serve as development partners who
“We must recognise that digital disruption is a
cornerstone of a modern, diversified economy.
It is digital disruptors who redefine the competitive
landscape as they strengthen knowledge-based
economies
.”
urge you, our creative and courageous
entrepreneurs, to apply your minds to the
challenges of our continent.”
The GEC was hosted by the Global
Entrepreneurship Network, Sustainable
Entrepreneur Accelerator (SEA)
Africa and the City of Johannesburg.
SEA Africa is also custodian to the Global
Entrepreneurship Network-South Africa
(GEN-SA) chapter.

78 79
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICAN TREASURES: CELEBRATING OUR RICH GENETIC RESOURCES AND CULTURAL HERITAGE
South African treasures:
Celebrating our rich
genetic resources and
cultural heritage
By Pragashnie Adurthy
Ancient crafts have flourished for many centuries in South
Africa, together with a long history that has been transmitted
verbally from one generation to another
. . .
Formerly attached to the Geneva Mission in Switzerland (Global Governance and Continental Agenda),
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
78 79Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATURESOUTH AFRICAN TREASURES: CELEBRATING OUR RICH GENETIC RESOURCES AND CULTURAL HERITAGE
Ancient crafts have flourished for many centuries in South
Africa, together with a long history that has been transmitted
verbally from one generation to another
. . .

80 81
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
“
In many ways, South Africa is a
microcosm of the world. Together
with sister nations on the African
continent, South Africa is the
library of the history of the Earth”.
(President Thabo Mbeki speaking
at the Cradle of Humankind World Heritage
Site in 2002)
With these powerful words, the former
Minister of Home Affairs, Malusi Gigaba,
opened the 2016 World Intellectual Property
Organisation (WIPO) General Assemblies,
which was held from 3 to 11 October 2016
in Geneva, Switzerland. This was followed
by the loud crescendo of African drums
and energetic traditional dance, providing
delegates with a tantalising glimpse of the
rich cultural heritage of South Africa
South Africa hosted an exhibition under
the theme: Treasures of South Africa, which
showcased how its engagement in the
activities of WIPO found expression in the
management of national intellectual property.
The highly anticipated exhibition reflected
South Africa’s multicultural artefacts from
which many artists and culture practioners
make a living. Ancient crafts have flourished
for many centuries in South Africa, together
with a long history that has been transmitted
verbally from one generation to another
established the brand in 2011 with the desire
to explore a knitwear design solution that
would be suitable for the amakrwala (Xhosa
male initiates) traditional dress. As a person
who had undergone the ritual, he felt the
need to develop a premium knitwear range
that celebrated traditional Xhosa beadwork
aesthetics, using South African mohair and
wool. Laduma is an agent of change, shifting
and evolving with the changing times and
engaging in dialogue that pushes Xhosa
culture to the future.
Designer Hangwani Nengovhela brought
a subtle African opulence to each collection
with a continued commitment to design
excellence and Rubicon Clothing presented
their autumn collection using the shaginat
material, inspired by the Mapungubwe
landscape.
Ceramic creativity
Not to be left behind, South African ceramic
artists were driven by the vision of sharing
and reflecting the richness of African culture
and its traditions. Thoughtfully and creatively
put together, each piece was a masterpiece,
reflecting the beauty of ancient African
pottery methods. South African pottery
artists are pushing traditional boundaries
with their creative and innovative designs,
using different kinds of clay to create intricate
and delicate designs. Following centuries-old
firing techniques, pots are pebbled-smoked
to produce its sophisticated and glossy finish.
Jabu Nala, the eldest daughter of Nesta
Nala, who learned the art of pottery from
her mother, has been pushing boundaries
with her recent collection of pots, breaking
away from traditional Zulu beer containers
80 81
With growing international interest in the potential
of cultural and creative industries, South Africa
is increasingly drawing inspiration from its past
and ever-evolving cultural industries as viable
contributors to economic growth and job creation.
and the exhibition was an embodiment
of the assimilation of indigenous cultural
expressions that had retained their original
uniqueness.
With growing international interest in the
potential of cultural and creative industries,
South Africa is increasingly drawing
inspiration from its past and ever-evolving
cultural industries as viable contributors to
economic growth and job creation.
On display were authentic African craft
products such as ilala baskets, fire-pebbled
ceramics and ethically inspired fashion
from South African indigenous designers
who are firmly placing South Africa on
the international fashion map. Inspired by
cultural heritage and tradition, Africa comes
alive through their creativity and imagination.
Pulsating African rhythm and storytelling
WIPO delegates were also treated to
spectacular African dance, showcasing
ancient and sacred traditions such as
Ingoma, which was considered one of the
most purist forms of Zulu dance performed
to a chant during transition ceremonies,
such as coming of age, weddings and pre-
hunt or pre-battle time periods. The Ingoma
is frantically danced and incorporates high
kicking motion. Another famous dance
performed was Indlamu, the traditional
male warrior dance that shows off muscular
strength and mock fighting. Accompanied
by energetic Tsonga and Tswana dances,
South African pride in their cultural heritage
was on full display. The troupe rounded off
their dancing with Septapa and Tsutsube –
unique, rhythmic and expressive dances
used for storytelling and healing. It often
takes the form of a trance dance, where a
religious ritual is performed for healing the ill
by clapping, dancing and chanting.
Fashion forward, Africa has arrived
The collections on display celebrated
South African fashion designers who were
embracing and reclaiming Africa’s pride
through the medium of fashion.
Designers drew inspiration from their
natural environment and incorporated
elements from forest plantations in the Natal
Midlands to the oceans off Cape Town. Bold
colours, textures and designs, steeped in
cultural heritage and tradition, dominated the
collection.
Laduma Ngxokolo is one of Africa’s finest
knitwear designers and a fashion-forward
innovator. Drawing from his Xhosa heritage,
he produced an inspired knitwear brand
called MAXHOSA by LADUMA. Laduma
to more sculpted forms. Her latest collection
of ceramic vessels demonstrates innovative
design and form and strikes a fine balance
between traditional Zulu and contemporary
shapes. Made with red and grey clay, hand-
dug and ground with a traditional Zulu
grinding stone, Jabu’s pots are all hand-
coiled and smoothed before being burnished
with river pebbles and decorated with incised
patterns or added warts of clay using an
ancient design called “Amasumpa”.
Indigenous Rooibos wine
South Africa also introduced the international
community to Rooibos wine, which has
been referred to as a “game-changer” in the
alcoholic beverage industry as it contains no
sulphites or preservatives.
It is low in calories, contains high levels
of antioxidants and no caffeine and has low
levels of tannin. Using toasted indigenous
woodchips of the Honeybush and Rooibos
plant, which are only grown in the Western
i
The World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) is the nodal point for intellectual
property (IP) and was created in 1970 to replace the United International Bureaux
for the Protection of Intellectual Property. Its primary objective is the promotion and
protection of IP. Joining the United Nations family in 1974, WIPO has steadily undergone
transformation, becoming more development-orientated and cognisant of the needs of
its broader membership. Two-thirds of WIPO members are developing countries which
successfully called for change in the status quo through the adoption of the Development
Agenda in 2006, which mandated the organisation to mainstream development
considerations throughout the work of the entire organisation. Once the domain of the
developed world pushing narrow selfish interests, WIPO is heeding the calls of the South
to ensure that is a fully representative and member-driven organisation.
In line with this paradigm shift, South Africa is also working on a Draft National Policy on
IP, which calls for reforms to South Africa’s IP laws and the adoption and implementation
of substantive examination.
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICAN TREASURES: CELEBRATING OUR RICH GENETIC RESOURCES AND CULTURAL HERITAGE FEATURESOUTH AFRICAN TREASURES: CELEBRATING OUR RICH GENETIC RESOURCES AND CULTURAL HERITAGE

82 83
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Cape, the wine has a distinctive local flavour.
Patent applications have been lodged in 83
jurisdictions worldwide and currently, the
European Union recognises both Rooibos
and Honeybush as geographic indicators,
which bodes well for the local industry and
the facilitation of sustainable development
and job creation.
We are “All-From-One”
South Africa is home to the Cradle of
Humankind, which provides cogent evidence
that humans and their ancestors evolved
in Africa before migrating across the world.
Buried deep within the limestone caves of
Sterkfontein, Swartkrans and Kromdraai
lie fossil records that tell the life story of
our ancestors millions of years ago. Well-
preserved and boasting rare complete
fossils, it provides the earliest record of
human evolution, laying to rest arbitrary
theories of racial supremacy.
Minister Gigaba reminded the delegates
that: “Evidence of the early civilisations
and way of life of our ancestors are being
uncovered daily, restoring to our people a
great and profound pride at the knowledge
that our ancestors were not only the sources
of primitive life, but above all else they were
the sources of early knowledge, science,
mathematics and other civilisations. Rapidly,
the lie, spread over centuries and enforced
viciously through propaganda, that the
African people had no role in civilisation and
development, and had no culture, is being
exposed by science and the truth”.
The All-from-One Exhibition provided
scientific evidence about our shared human
origins and the shared origins of all life forms
in order to challenge commonly held ideas
about humankind and our place in nature.
While we are unique, the exhibition
highlighted that we all shared strong bonds
of similarity with other people based on a
deeply rooted common humanity.
As a species, we are but one twig among
millions on the tree of life that sustains us all.
The exhibition celebrated South Africa’s
innovation in the sciences with regard to
the origins of humanity and showcased the
novel ways in which science could be used
around the world to promote tolerance,
diversity, social cohesion and inclusive,
sustainable conservation of our Earth’s
natural biodiversity.
It was fitting that South Africa could
remind the international community that
all living humans originated from one
ancestor in Africa and that contrary to
popular belief, Africa, especially South
Africa, was indeed the library of the
history of the world.
Work of WIPO
The exhibition was successful in drawing
attention to the importance of the promotion,
preservation and protection of Traditional
Cultural Expressions and Traditional
Knowledge (TK), which was the oldest form
of knowledge known to mankind. It also
highlighted the critical need to prevent the
misappropriation of genetic resources. The
current Intellectual Property Regime does
not adequately protect TK as much of it is
owned by the community and is passed on
from generation to generation. However,
due to sustained pressure from developing
countries, especially the African Group and
Latin American States, WIPO has recognised
the need to protect TK through the adoption
of a legal instrument.
A fierce advocate within the developing
country bloc, South Africa has played an
active and instrumental role in drawing
attention to the importance of preventing
the misappropriation of secret and scared
knowledge as well as pushing for Disclosure
of Origin of genetic resources and associated
TK in patent applications and other
forms of intellectual property claims. The
Intergovernmental Committee on Genetic
Resources, TK and Traditional Cultural
Expressions is currently working on finalising
discussions on the text which, if agreed
by consensus, would lead to a diplomatic
conference to adopt a legal instrument.
 As we look towards creating a sustainable
world and promoting development and
economic growth, we can often draw on
our rich cultural heritage which has grown
exponentially in value. Standing on the
threshold of the Knowledge Economy, Africa
may the richest of them all when it comes to
ancient TK.
In order to capitalise on this treasure
trove, we need to pay heed to Minister
Gigaba’s poignant words: “Those of us alive
today are an important link between the
past and the future, ourselves repositories
of the great knowledge of our origins as
well as of the future treasures of tomorrow’s
generations”.
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICAN TREASURES: CELEBRATING OUR RICH GENETIC RESOURCES AND CULTURAL HERITAGE

84 85
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
FEATUREFEATURE SOUTH AFRICAN MINT REVEALS NEW COLOUR COINS
T
he South African Mint revealed
the first-ever South African
colour coins at the highly
successful inaugural Cape
Town Flower Show, held from
27 to 30 October 2016, at the
Castle of Good Hope. The crown-sized coins
are a first-of-a-kind innovation in South Africa
that sees colour applied to coins.
In 2015, the South African Mint launched
the UNESCO Man and Biosphere coin
range, celebrating the rich diversity of the
Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve. It was this
inaugural range that inspired the creation of
the new colour coins, which depict the fauna
and flora of the Kogelberg area.
This latest range consists of two R5 (1 oz)
sterling-silver coins depicting flowers and
two R10 (1 oz) sterling-silver coins depicting
birds – all in colour. Only 500 of each coin
will be minted. The first R5 coin features
a beautiful flowering blue-bearded disa,
while the second coin depicts the striking
Hermanus cliff gladiolus, situated in its
natural habitat of rocky sandstone outcrops
and cliffs. The first R10 coin features the
vibrant orange-breasted sunbird displaying
its colourful plumage of bright metallic blue,
violet, olive green, orange and yellow. The
second R10 coin features a male Cape rock-
jumper with its dark rufous breast and belly.
On the common obverse of the four coins is
a map of South Africa indicating the location
of the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve.
The coins were launched at the well-
attended Cape Town Flower Show, where
the South African Mint sponsored the Floral
Theatre, Leon Kluge’s Origami Garden and
the popular Master Florist competition. The
Floral Theatre showcased the beautiful world
of cut flowers with curated, floral displays in
four themes: wedding, gifting, celebration
and indigenous.
The Master Florist competition was a
popular feature of the flower show, where
12 floral artists, ranging from amateur to
professional-level, were pitted against each
other over the four days. The 12 finalists,
shortlisted from a nationwide search that
began months before the event, were
CULINARY TOURISM A GROWING NICHE MARKET ACROSS THE GLOBE
South African Mint reveals
new colour coins
Collectable coins, such as the new colour
coin range, are a great way of celebrating and
commemorating significant events, people and the
overall heritage of a nation
.
challenged to show their flower design skill
for the main prize of R20 000 and their very
own sterling-silver colour coin, sponsored by
the South African Mint.
“Through coin-making, we view ourselves
as narrators of the rich heritage of our
country,” said Tumi Tsehlo, Managing
Director of the South African Mint. “This is a
role we take seriously as the official mint of
South Africa, and one that has provided us
with opportunities to innovate.
"We proudly present an aspect of our
natural heritage, for the first time in glorious
colour.
"These collectable coins are not only for
avid coin collectors; we are thrilled to see
how well they were received by the general
public, both young and old, at the Cape Town
Flower Show."
Collectable coins, such as the new colour
coin range, are a great way of celebrating
and commemorating significant events,
people and the overall heritage of a nation.
The South African Mint has invested in the
technology which makes the manufacturing
of these special colour coins a reality
and ensures that the entire product is
manufactured locally.
These collectable colour coins are
available for purchase at the South African
Mint retail store in Centurion, Gauteng.
CARING FOR THE COMMUNITY.
SOCIO-ECONOMIC   DEVELOPMENT
Healthcare Park, Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, 2196. P O Box 1587, Gallo Manor, 2052, Gauteng. Switchboard: +27 (0) 11 239-6100
Healthcare. We care.
Marketed by Aspen Pharmacare
www.aspenpharma.com
Hotline 0800 122 912
C
M
Y
CM
MY
CY
CMY
K
Aspen_SED Advert_210 mm x 297 mm_RR_29032016.pdf   1   2016/03/29   5:47 PM
The South African Mint has invested in the
technology which makes the manufacturing of
these special colour coins a reality and ensures that
the entire product is manufactured locally
.

86 87
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Flying the SA flag
S
outh African singing sensation,
Pretty Yende, started 2017 off
with a bang! The soprano’s successful
international career took a another
positive turn in New York when she
unexpectedly stepped in to perform in
Bellini’s I Puritani at the Metropolitan
Opera after lead Diana Damrau,
revered as one of the greatest singing
actresses, fell ill.
The press and opera fraternity
raved, saying Yende’s performance
was “a triumph” and “spectacular in
every way”. It was even more notable
as she had only sung the role once
before, in a non-traditional production
last year in Zurich. In February 2017,
Pretty Yende was the winner of the
Ubuntu Arts and Culture Diplomacy
Award (Youth).
The annual awards, hosted by the
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation, are held to celebrate
South African citizens who play an
active role in projecting a positive
image of South Africa internationally
through their good work.

www.channel24.co.za
T
V chef and cookbook author, Zola
Nene, recently scooped “Best English
Cookbook by a Celebrity Chef” at the
Gourmand World Cookbook Awards. This
means that she now qualifies for the next
“Gourmand Best in the World” competition to
be held in China in October. The cookbook that
stole the show was Zola’s Simply Delicious ,
which was launched in February 2016. The
book is a celebration of her food philosophy
and focusses on various stages of the chef’s
life.
She came out tops against other top chefs
from the United Kingdom‚ United States of
America‚ Australia‚ Bangladesh‚ India‚ New
Zealand and Sweden.
www.food24.com
Minister Radebe appointed to WEF Stewardship Board
Top honours for SA diplomat
T
he Stellenbosch Wine Routes organisation has again been singled out
from its peers in leading wine regions of the world.
Having claimed titles in 2014 and 2015, Stellenbosch Wine Routes was
again named winner of the category for Best Promotional Body in the
competition organised by the respected journal, Drinks International.
The award recognises Stellenbosch Wine Routes for its commitment
and excellence. The judges paid particular attention to consumer-facing
initiatives that enticed visitors to the region. The championship seeks
to recognise innovation and excellence while the categories reflect the
SA celeb chefs wins “Best English Cookbook by a Celebrity Chef”
I
n February 2017, the World Federation
of Tourist Guide Associations (WFTGA)
appointed a South African tourist guide as its
new President.
Alushca Ritchie, a registered tourist guide
in the Western Cape, was appointed to head
the internationally recognised body at the 17th
biennial World Federation of Tourist Guide
Associations Convention, which took place in
Tehran, Iran.
Ritchie has been a wine specialist for the
last six years.
She owns and manages a tourism business
and has served as the Chairperson of the
Cape Tourist Guides Association, a director
on the Cape Town Tourism Board and
as the Western Cape Representative of the
South African Travel Services Association.
The WFTGA is a not-for-profit, non-political
organisation comprising tourist guide
associations, individual tourist guides,
educational institutions and other members
who have a direct or indirect association with
tourist guides. It is an Affiliate Member of the
United Nations World Tourism Organisation.
The President of WFTGA serves for a two-
year term and is supported by an Executive
Board made up of delegates from Australia,
Iran, United States of America, Canada and
the United Kingdom.
The convention was attended by about
350 participants and delegates from over 40
countries.
“I look forward to representing all tourist
guides on an international platform. This will
be a great opportunity to learn and to promote
Pretty Yende shines in New York
SA tourist guide appointed as President of WFGTA
Stellenbosch Wine Routes become triple champion
strategy, proposition, investment and creativity required to turn a
region into an attractive long-term tourist attraction.
“The achievement is as significant for Stellenbosch as it will be
for the wider South African wine tourism industry. The Stellenbosch
Wine Routes network itself represents more than 200 wine and
grape producers in the boundaries of the Stellenbosch Wine of
Origin classification,” shares Stellenbosch Wine Routes Manager,
Elmarie Rabe.
A cornerstone attraction to millions of tourists every year,
Stellenbosch has made its influence felt in numerous fields,
including history, culture, natural beauty, sport and education,
around the globe. As for a premium wine offering, Stellenbosch has
had one of the longest associations with viniculture in the country.
When it launched the wine route in 1971, it was the first in the
country to establish such an organised network.
The Stellenbosch Wine Routes now include five sub-routes that
each have their own characteristics in terms of prominent wine
styles, climates and geographical location.
As part of the Cape Winelands, the Stellenbosch Wine
Routes are part of the six most popular tourist attractions in
South Africa and are also connected to the global Great Wine
Capitals Network.
www.iol.co.za
S
outh Africa’s former ambassador to the
United Nations, Ambassador Kingsley
Mamabolo, has been appointed as Joint
Special Representative and Head of the
African Union (AU)-United Nations (UN)
Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID).
Ambassador Mamablo’s appointment
was announced on 4 April 2017 by UN
Secretary-General, António, Guterres, and
AU Commission Chairperson, Moussa
Faki. Ambassador Mamabolo had been
serving UNAMID as Acting Joint Special
Representative since the departure of
Martin Ihoeghian Uhomoibhi of Nigeria on
4 January 2017.
The UN and the AU said Ambassador
Mamabolo brought “first-hand experience in
dealing with the situation in Darfur, as well
as expertise from his distinguished career in
the diplomatic service". Since 2016, he had
served the mission as Deputy Joint Special
Representative for Pillar I, overseeing
political, human rights and legal aspects of
UNAMID’s activities.
86 87Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
I
n January 2017, the Minister in The
Presidency responsible for Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Jeff Radebe,
was appointed to the Stewardship Board of
the World Economic Forum (WEF) System
Initiative on the Future of Education, Gender
and Work. Minister Radebe was invited to join
the board which comprises 20 to 40 global
leaders drawn from the public and private
sectors.
According to the Department of Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation, the opportunity
came along the lines of South Africa’s trusted
partnership with WEF. He will be expected to
provide leadership on selected issues relating
to education, gender and work.
“I am pleased to be part of a board that
seeks to cultivate collective leadership on
public-private initiatives, with the objective of
ensuring that eight billion people worldwide
can live up to their full potential by developing
and deploying their talent for maximum
benefit to the economy and society,” said
Minister Radebe.
The WEF annual meeting gathers leaders
from all sectors of society to discuss the global
economy and look for solutions to challenges
through public-private cooperation.
SAnews.gov.za
a sector which is very rarely recognised
as a profession, although it is an integral
component of the tourism value chain,”
Ritchie said.
www.brandsouthafrica.com

88 89
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Flying the SA flag
T
IME Magazine recently revealed its list of Next Generation Leaders that included
South African comedian Trevor Noah.
The list comprises 10 young innovators and rising stars that run the gamut from
innovative artists and impressive athletes to risk-taking activists and groundbreaking
entrepreneurs.
The magazine praises Noah for his impressive rise to fame and his work as host of
The Daily Show, which has seen a massive rise in international viewership.
South Africa’s Trevor Noah is one of the most successful comedians in Africa and
is the host of the Emmy and Peabody Award-winning The Daily Show on Comedy
Central.
This year, The Daily Show was nominated for a Writers Guild Award (Comedy/
Variety Series). Noah joined The Daily Show with Jon Stewart in 2014 as a contributor.
www.channel24.co.za
I
n March 2017, South African Big Wave
Surfer and Guinness SUP World Record
Holder, Chris Bertish, completed the first, solo,
unsupported Transatlantic SUP Crossing.
Bertish set off on the greatest ocean
adventure ever attempted from the coast of
Morocco on 6 December 2016 and traversed
4 050 nm/7 500 km, paddling 1 944 000
strokes across the Atlantic Ocean for 93
“Modder en Bloed” wins award at American Film Festival
I
n June 2017,  Junior Springbok No 8, Juarno
Augustus, was named the World Rugby U20
Championship Player of the Tournament as
the curtain came down on the three-week
tournament at a glittering function in Tbilisi,
Georgia. Augustus, fondly known as “Trokkie”
for the prestigious award. “It is a surreal
feeling to win this award,” Augustus said.
“I didn’t think I would win it.
“It is an honour and privilege for me, and
certainly a highlight in my career.
“I’d like to thank my teammates, coaches
and the public who voted for me. I’d also
like to thank my family for their unwavering
support throughout my career. This is a very
special moment.”
The Junior Boks finished third in the
tournament after beating France 37-15 in the
bronze playoff.
 New Zealand’s Baby Blacks were crowned
champions after thumping England 64-17 in
the final.
www.sport24.co.za
Player of the Tournament Award for Junior Bok
"TIME" names Trevor Noah one of the “Next Generation Leaders”
SA scientist recognised at 19th L’oréal-UNESCO for Women in Science Awards
SA adventurer powers to new world record
T
he 19th edition of the L’Oréal-
UNESCO for Women in Science
Awards International Rising Talent
gala dinner took place in March 2017
in Paris. Dr Stephanie Fanucchi was
one of 15 young female scientists
recognised for her innovative
research in cancer and auto-immune
diseases.
She is a postdoctoral researcher
at the Biomedical Translational
Research Initiative, an initiative of the
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research and the University of Cape
Town.
“Winning this award has been
surreal,” said Dr Fanucchi, “and
being exposed to such great scientific
talent has been a life-changing
experience. Having the platform to
discuss the importance of having
more women in science has been a
highlight for me. In addition, we get
to celebrate phenomenal female
scientific achievements, which can
inspire young girls who want to enter
science.”
In congratulating Dr Fanucchi, the
Minister of Science and Technology,
Naledi Pandor, said: “It is pleasing
to see our young scientists being
recognised internationally for the
sterling research they do. This is
proof that we are as good as anybody
else in the world, if not even better”.

www.dst.gov.za
E
arly in January 2017, CNN released a list
of 18 new restaurants across the globe
that food lovers should be visiting this year –
and a Cape Town eatery cracked the nod.
La Tête restaurant on Bree St was listed as
one of the “best new restaurants for 2017”.
The article rounded up the top new restaurants
openings around the world in places as far
flung as Switzerland, New York, Japan, Los
Angeles, Mexico and New Zealand. The
entry for La Tête in the CCN article went as
follows: ““Brothers Giles and James Edwards
are behind this new French bistro which is all
about nose-to-tail eating.
“Situated in Cape Town’s increasingly
popular Bree Street restaurant landscape,
part of their goal is to get diners to embrace
otherwise unfamiliar parts of the animal.
“It’s no surprise that Giles worked for years
with the godfather of nose-to-tail chefs,
Fergus Henderson, at London’s peerless
St John restaurant. The menu changes daily
but will include plates such as crispy pig tails.”
Giles Edwards, Chef Patron at La Tête,
commented: “It’s great to get such recognition
so early on from a media organisation with
CNN’s reach and influence.
We’ve already had international visitors
flocking in, and going away and satisfied with
what we do. Our style of cooking seems to
have hit the spot.”
He added that the locals were also
discovering and enjoying his nose-to-tail
cuisine. “We’ve had a great response from
locals.
"Our food is simple, the freshness and
honest flavours are paramount in each dish.”
www.bizcommunity.com
CNN lists La Tête as one of 2017’s top new restaurants
M
odder en Bloed won the prestigious
Audience Choice Award – Best Feature
Drama – at the annual Sedona International
Film Festival in Phoenix, United States of
America, in February 2017. Writer, director and
producer, Sean Else, was in Sedona to accept
the award and hailed it as a tremendous team
effort from all involved with this film.
He said: “It’s great to get the recognition
and appreciation from an audience outside
of South Africa; these awards mean the most
as they are voted for by the public.” This was
the fourth international film festival where
Modder en Bloed was selected in the Official
Competition Section. This is also the first
Competition Award.
Producer, Llewelynn Greeff, said: “Playing
in festivals around the world is a wonderful
tribute to all involved with the production,
and it certainly helps with international sales
and distribution. We are incredibly proud of
everyone”.
 www.sapeople.com
88 89Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
days, to reach the finish in English Harbour,
Antigua.
Bertish paddled to the English Harbour
shores to receive a hero’s welcome and
flotilla on the water to guide and encourage
him to the finish line. Chris’ brothers, locals
and project supporters from around the globe
turned out to watch the dramatic arrival take
place.
As the nearly 20’ specialised SUP craft,
the ImpiFish, shoved to shore for the first
time in three months, after much cheering,
hugging and tears of joy, Chris commented:
“If you truly believe in yourself and persevere,
anything is possible, and here we are. After
over three months solo on the open ocean,
I am here, on land again with friends and
family – my feelings of accomplishment and
extreme gratitude for everyone that made
this incredible journey possible are beyond
words”.
The SUP Crossing will continue raising
funds for several charitable organisations,
including The Lunchbox Fund, Operation
Smile and Signature of Hope. Bertish
personally committed to funding one operation
for a child in Africa through Operation Smile
for every world record he achieved on this
epic transatlantic journey.
And he achieved many of them, including
a new world record for a 24-hour solo
unsupported and unassisted open ocean
distance SUP.
www.news24.co.za
by his teammates, crossed the tryline in each
of the team’s five matches in the international
spectacle to finish the tournament with a
grand total of seven tries. This marked the
most tries by a player in the 2017 tournament.
Augustus touched down twice against
France in their opening match of the
tournament, with his second try being the
vital try to draw the match, while he scored
once against Georgia and Argentina, twice
in the semi-final against England and added
another in the bronze playoff against France
on Sunday.
He went up against England captain Zach
Mercer and his teammate Gabriel Ibiotye, and
New Zealand’s Tiaan Falcon and Will Jordan

90 91
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
British Ecology Award for UCT student
N
andi Zama (31) has recently flown into
the history books by becoming the first
black woman commander (the equivalent of a
civilian captain) to fly the C-130 military cargo
plane.
Nandi made her maiden journey on Friday,
24 March 2017, when she flew the C-130
from the Democratic Republic of Congo to
Waterkloof Air Force base in Gauteng, South
Africa.
The South African-born pilot said in an
interview four years ago that she had joined
the military in 2004 straight from high school,
and then “there was a year of military training”,
followed by aerodynamics.
In 2006, she received her wings after
attending central flying school, and in 2007
she was transferred to 41 Squadron.
She is now in 28 Squadron.
Lieutenant Colonel Ntsikelelo Mantshongo,
SA National Defence Force spokesperson,
said Nandi’s history-making command of
the four-engine military plane C-130 came
Nandi Zama becomes first black woman to command C-130 Military Cargo Plane
A
t the end of March 2017, University of
Cape Town (UCT) ecologist, Gabriella
Leighton, won a British Ecological Society
Young Investigator Prize.
One of only five awarded each year,
it recognises the best research papers
published in society journals by early-career
scientists.
Leighton, 23, won the Robert May Prize
for the best paper in methods in ecology
and evolution in 2016 for “Just Google It:
Assessing the Use of Google Images to
Describe Geographical Variation in Visible
Traits of Organisms”.
The prize, which includes a year’s British
Ecological Society membership plus a year’s
subscription to the journal, will be presented
at the society’s annual meeting in Belgium, in
December.
It is awarded for an important contribution
in converting one aspect of field ecology to a
desktop science, and Leighton’s paper shows
how Google can help make ecology cheaper,
faster and safer in the future.
Leighton analysed online image data
across a range of species, from black bears
in western North America to black sparrow
T
erry Pheto recently took home the award for Best Supporting Actress at the National Film
Awards UK for her role in A United Kingdom.
On the news of her win, Terry expressed her excitement and thanks on Instagram. Alongside a
picture of her with her award she wrote, “I won. I won. I won. Thank you #NationalFilmAwardsUK”.
The ceremony was held at the Prochester Hall in London at the end of March 2017 where Terry
walked the carpet in a dazzling Thula Sindi design.
www.channel24.co.za
Terry Pheto wins international film award
90 91Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
hawks in South Africa, comparing data on
their colour collected by fieldworkers with data
from Google images, and found the online
images are reliable.
To make the method accessible, Leighton’s
paper includes a web application, Morphic,
that allows the approach to be widely
implemented.
Leighton is reading for her Master’s degree
at UCT, where she completed her Honours in
Biological Sciences, supervised by Dr Arjun
Amar, a co-author of her paper.
“I am extremely honoured, I never thought
I would get this award. I am only at the very
beginning of my career. It is a huge accolade.”
She said her passion for ecology grew
from her love of animals. “I decided to study
zoology at a young age. I love animals and
nature, and have an appreciation for all kinds
of animals, especially cats.”
www.iol.co.za
with major responsibility. He said: “If there’s
a mission and she needs to take the aircraft‚
she needs to assemble a team that includes
specialists on board.
The plane can take up to 160 people.”
Nandi has already been flying the aircraft
for four years, but this was her first time as
commander.
She described the experience as something
that could not be explained in words. “You just
have to be there to experience it,” she said.
www.sapeople.com
Flying the SA flag

92 93
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

94 95
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Minister Zulu launches French South African tech labs
The Minister of Small Business Development, Lindiwe Zulu, and the French
Ambassador, Christophe Farnaud, on 21 February, launched the French South
African Tech Labs, the new incubator and accelerator dedicated to South African and
French entrepreneurs.
The launch, which took place in Century City, Cape Town, is a partnership between
Methys, an international company operating in digital transformation and the Small
Enterprise Development Agency, an agency of the Department of Small Business
Development. Both organisations have invested a combined R10 million in this
new programme for entrepreneurs. This initiative seeks to enhance links between France and South Africa in the innovation
ecosystem.
The primary goal of this partnership is to transform ideas and projects into sustainable businesses and to create dozens of
jobs in the next few years.
This launch was a build-up to the Global Entrepreneurship Congress, which was held in March this year – for the first time
on the African continent.
ACSA ranked among 10 most punctual in the world
The Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) has recently been ranked among the
10 most punctual airports in the world.
“ACSA’s achievement, among others, is attributed to its world-class state-of-the-
art Airport Management Centre (AMC), which is the nerve centre of the airports
operations. The AMC facilitates a seamless coordination between airlines, baggage
handlers, security staff, customer service staff, aircraft engineers and marshals,”
said the former Minister of Transport, Dipuo Peters.
The list was revealed by the OAG Aviation Worldwide, a United Kingdom-based agency which monitors on-time-performance
among airlines and airports globally.
OR Tambo International Airport in Kempton Park achieved eighth place in the large airports category while Cape Town
International Airport ranked sixth in the medium airports category. King Shaka International Airport in KwaZulu-Natal was 10th
in the small airports category.
OAG Aviation Worldwide tracks a minimum of 80% of the flights that operate at an airport for it to be included in the Punctuality
League. According to the league, the top 20 airports in the large airport category ensured that 83,9% arriving and departing
flights operated under 15 minutes of their scheduled arrival and departure times last year.
SAnews.gov.za
Cape Town International voted Africa’s best airport
Cape Town International Airport was voted the best airport in Africa recently, in a
poll by a popular online travel guide focussed on “making travel more tolerable”.
The Guide to Sleeping in Airports – “a travel community that shares their
experiences and advice with fellow airport sleepers” at sleepinginairports.net – has
been asking people since October to rate their experiences at airports worldwide
based on several categories.
These include comfort, services, security and cleanliness as well as free wifi,
pay-to-use lounges and budget-friendly food options.
While the world number one for 2016 was named as Singapore Changi International Airport, in Africa, Cape Town International
Airport was king.
Travellers were consistently happy with the terminals’ cleanliness, simplicity and helpful, friendly staff as well as perks such
as free wifi.
While no African airports made it into the world top 10, three South African airports are in Africa’s top 10.
Johannesburg’s OR Tambo came in at number four and Durban’s King Shaka International was at number six.
www.timeslive.co.za
 #a good story to tell
94 95Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Features   Entertainment    Sport   News   Government   Lifestyle    More
Sign up
>
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Table Mountain Cableway welcomes its 26 millionth visitor in record time
Table Mountain Cableway recently welcomed its 26 millionth visitor to the mountain,
with the latest million visitors having taken a record-breaking 11 months to reach!
On a busy morning at the Lower Station Ticket Office, Elbie Mattheus from Cradock,
Eastern Cape, stood unsuspecting as the numbers ticked closer to the million mark.
Surprised by fanfare and balloons, Elbie (accompanied by boyfriend Morne Viljoen)
received a prize from the Cableway, including Cableway tickets, a Table Mountain Café
voucher, Shop at the Top merchandise, a Monopoly Cape Town set and a Jiva Grande
Spa signature treatment followed by a delicious Afternoon Tea for two at the prestigious
Taj Cape Town Hotel. “This is my first time going up the mountain, so what an amazing surprise to be Cableway’s 26 millionth
visitor,” said Elbie. “With limited time in Cape Town, this is definitely a must-do experience. I cannot wait to take in the views from
the top.” Cableway Managing Director, Wahida Parker, said it had taken 28 years for the Cableway to record its first millionth visitor
– in 1957. But thanks to consistent visitor numbers throughout 2016 and an increase in visitors during the usually quiet, colder
months of winter, the Cableway was able to celebrate reaching the latest million visits in just 11 months.
“As proud custodians of South Africa’s New7Wonder of Nature we not only look forward to welcoming many more
visitors to the Cableway but aim to showcase this magnificent attraction with continued excitement, respect and passion,”
said Parker.
www.sapeople.com
Feeling at home at Jamie’s Italian in South Africa
Famed British chef Jamie Oliver has made another addition to his Jamie’s
Italian restaurant chain. The newest branch, in Johannesburg, opened to diners
in December.
The spacious setting can seat up to 300 people, but it is easy to feel at
home with the warm, earthy tones of the décor, the wooden tables, the rustic
chandeliers in the private dining area and the assortment of pictures hanging
on the walls. Jack de Wet, head of design and development for the Jamie Oliver
Restaurant Group in the United Kingdom, has drawn influence from South Africa’s heritage for the design. Originally from the
Western Cape, De Wet has a postgraduate degree in Architecture from the University of Cape Town.
“South Africa has an abundance of material to work with,” he says. “The centre of it all, Joburg, is known as the city of gold with
a nod to the industrialisation of the gold-mining industry.
“We have used these elements in the materials, patterns and detailing of the design, without it being too obvious. This can be
seen in the intricate metalwork balustrade and screen details.”
Leanne van Wyk, the Marketing Manager, says the Jamie’s Italian restaurants all over the world incorporate regional touches
into their design. “By drawing inspiration from indigenous prints, national colours and key industries, Jamie’s Italian aims to
become part of the culture and vibe of South Africa but also contribute to it,” she says.
Its doors officially opened on 15 December 2016 after months of hype and anticipation, Van Wyk says.
wwwbrandsouthafrica.com
dti to spend R216 million on upgrading industrial parks
A R216-million upgrade of five industrial parks would have a positive impact immediately
with most of the labour and construction materials being procured from local areas, the
Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) said recently.
The department said in a statement that it had identified a need to revitalise industrial
parks around the country, mainly in the former homelands, as part of efforts to promote
industrialisation, manufacturing and job creation.
The first phase of revitalisation of the Nkowankowa, Ekandustria, Bodirelo,
Phuthaditjhaba and Garankuwa industrial parks had been approved late last year. The department said the programme would be
implemented in four phases, with the first being the upgrading of security infrastructure.
The Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies, said: “We would like to see these parks operating as centres of excellence and
beehives of economic activity, contributing to the growth and diversification of our economy.
“The revitalisation process will ensure that the upgraded parks appeal to private investors, provide a conducive environment and
attract investments that will create jobs and assist in promoting economic transformation,” Minister Davies added. –
Africa News Agency
Log in

96 97
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
 #a good story to tell
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Joburg zoo gets world accreditation
Midrand’s Lory Park Animal and Owl Sanctuary has received its Pan-
African Association of Zoos and Aquaria accreditation, making it one of
only six institutions in Africa to be accredited.
“By being an accredited member, we go through a gruelling auditing
process where absolutely everything is scrutinised. Auditors look at all
aspects of the work done at the zoo.
“This includes, but is not limited to, safety, veterinary care provided for
the animals, diets, husbandry, enrichment practices and all procedures
put in place by the facility,” said the assistant park manager, Kara Heynis. Lory Park did not only attain accreditation but has
also been given a spot with the International Zoological Educators, of which there are only four on the continent.
The park was founded by Edward van Eck, who retired from his construction company to start a bird park in Midrand.
It was launched in April 2000, and many people began bringing injured and trapped animals, which eventually turned it
into a sanctuary and not just a bird park.
“We are truly so proud and honoured to have achieved this for the second time and look so forward to continuing to build
on this success,” said Heynis.
Caxton News Service
Two Oceans Aquarium awarded SA’s third Heritage Environmental
Star
Cape Town’s Two Oceans Aquarium has been awarded the prestigious Diamond
status by the Heritage Environmental Rating Programme, becoming only the
third establishment to achieve such status in South Africa.
The classification is awarded to participants in the Heritage Programme who
have maintained Platinum status for five consecutive years and have shown
continued improvement in their sustainability efforts.
The Table Mountain Aerial Cableway and Tsogo Sun’s Drakensberg Sun
Resort are the only two other Diamond status properties in South Africa, which received their honours in 2015 and 2013,
respectively.
According to Two Oceans Aquarium CEO, Michael Farquhar, the new status cements the aquarium’s aim to advocate
sustainability.
“We are on a sustainability journey and this award is an affirmation that we are on the right track, not that we have reached
the end. There is just no time to sit back and polish our diamond,” he says.
The Two Oceans Aquarium aims to raise awareness of environmental issues and promote conservation. This is in line
with its vision of abundant and healthy oceans and its mission to inspire support for their future well-being.
Through its environmental charter, which includes aspects of legislation, resource usage and communication, the
aquarium clearly outlines its sustainability goals.
Two Oceans Aquarium Communications and Sustainability Manager, Helen Lockhart, also says with the sustainability
journey, it has been “extremely gratifying and inspiring to see the shift in people’s attitudes and behaviour over the years and
to see sustainability move from being on the fringe of the business to now being a core focus area”.
 Traveller24
SA telescope helps reveal seven new planets
Data from the South African Astronomical Observatory (SAAO) telescope was recently used
to discover seven Earth-sized planets orbiting a star 40 light years away.
Three of these planets are in the star’s “habitable zone”. This means they could have liquid
water on their surface‚ which increases the chances of them hosting life.
SAAO’s 1-m telescope was used to take observations of the planetary system over several
nights in June and July last year‚ said Amanda Sickafoose‚ Head of Instrumentation at SAAO.
The telescope is equipped with the Sutherland high-speed optical camera‚ which can take up
to 70 images a second.
“This system is quite different from our solar system‚ which also raises new questions. The SAAO is proud to have played
a small role in this advancement in our understanding of planetary systems,” Sickafoose said.
Other telescopes used include the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Spitzer Space Telescope and ground-
based telescopes in Chile‚ Morocco‚ Hawaii and the Canary Islands.
www.timeslive.co.za
96 97Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Eskom scoops prestigious technology award
Eskom has been awarded the 2017 Technology Transfer Award. The award, given by United
States-based Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), is in recognition of research the
power firm conducted in shaping the future of electricity.
Eskom scooped top honours in the same category in 2016. The focus was in the field of
distribution planning with distributed resources.
“This award testifies to the groundbreaking research conducted by our Research and Development team, which continues
to create unique opportunities for the future of electricity,” said Eskom’s Interim Group Chief Executive at the time, Matshela
Koko.
He said the entity had prioritised research activities under the Eskom Power Plant Engineering Institute Programme, which
had produced over 100 graduates at MSc and PhD level since its inception in 2012.
“We have the most versatile and robust engineering capabilities on the African continent and are well on our way to claim
our place globally. We are extremely proud of our team for consistently achieving excellent results that put Eskom back on the
global map,” said Koko.
EPRI conducts research and development relating to the generation, delivery and use of electricity for the benefit of the
public.
SAnews.gov.za
Boeing opens new offices in South Africa and Kenya
The Boeing Company continues to expand its international presence as they announced the
opening of two new offices in South Africa and in Kenya.
Boeing’s most recent Current Market Outlook report predicts that air traffic to and from
Africa is expected to grow by about 6,1% annually over the next 20 years, which means
there will be a need for 1 150 new airplanes.
“Taking the necessary steps to establish a firm presence on the continent was an obvious choice,” says Miguel Santos,
Managing Director, Sub-Saharan Africa, Boeing International.
“Africa is not new territory for Boeing. Since the introduction of the jet airplane, Boeing aircraft have formed the backbone of
the continent’s commercial fleet and Boeing continues to be one of the largest United States-based companies doing business
on the continent,” he says.
Santos added that the aerospace industry needed to start paying closer attention to Africa, because the continent was on the
move economically and all the trends were pointing in the right direction for the expansion of the sector.
Traveller24
Famous French boulangerie Paul opens in Joburg
Famed French boulangerie and patisserie Paul has officially opened its first branch in
South Africa.
Most South Africans who’ve travelled will be aware of the chain which has outlets at
many airports around the world and is present in over 35 countries.
South Africa’s first branch opened its doors in Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, recently.
More Paul outlets are planned for the future in the country. This isn’t Paul’s first foray
into Africa – it already has branches in Morocco, the Ivory Coast and Reunion.
The SA Paul seats 180, and apart from the café service also has a larnier restaurant
where meals like coq au vin are served.
www.sapeople.com
Invest South Africa One Stop Shop launched
President Jacob Zuma on Friday, 17 March 2017, officially launched the Invest South
Africa One Stop Shop (Invest SA OSS) at the offices of the Department of Trade and
Industry in Pretoria, which has been established to improve the ease of doing business in
South Africa.
Business people had informed government on many occasions of the difficulties and
delays they expreriened when having to move from one department or institution to
another to obtain licences and other services.
The groundbreaking programme will enable investors to use one centre to obtain services and to shorten and simplify
administrative procedures and guidelines for the issuance of business approvals, permits and licences. This should help
remove bottlenecks faced by investors in establishing and running businesses in the country.
The Invest SA OSS will further serve to coordinate provincial OSS investment centres, incorporating the special economic
zones, provincial investment agencies, local authorities and the relevant government departments involved in regulatory,
registration, permits and licensing matters.

98 99
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
 #a good story to tell
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Cape Town International voted Best in Africa
The awards, held in Amsterdam recently, are among the most prestigious accolades
in the aviation industry, seeing Cape Town International Airport (CTIA) clinching 19th
spot in The World’s Top 100 Airports - 2017.
CTIA has not only been voted the best in Africa at the 2017 Skytrax World Airport
Awards, but the airport, which facilitated its highest volume of passengers in 2016, in
excess of 10 million passengers, has managed to climb three spots higher than last
year from 22nd to 19th in the top 100 list.
Durban’s King Shaka retained the same ranking at 35th spot in the top 100 Airports list, and was also voted the best
Regional Airport in Africa.
King Shaka, which also saw recordbreaking arrivals in 2016, was voted the sixth Best Regional Airport for 2017, with
Japan’s Centrair Nagoya clinching Top Regional Airport spot. Three of South Africa’s other regional airports also featured
on the list, with East London ranked second, Port Elizabeth ranked third and Bloemfontein ranked fourth – boding well for
domestic travel all round.
Johannesburg comes in at 37th position in the top 100 airports list overall, slipping some seven spots when compared to
last year’s ranking. However, it ranks considerably better than the United States’ equally busy JFK Airport, which came in
at 67th position on this year’s list.
These awards are significant because they are based on customer satisfaction, as voted by travellers. The 2017 Awards
are based on 13,82 million airport survey questionnaires completed by 105 different nationalities of airline customers during
the survey period.
www.news24.co.za
Trans African Locomotive launched
On 4 April 2017, President Jacob Zuma officially launched the Trans African
Locomotive in Pretoria.
This is the first-ever train that has been designed, engineered and
manufactured locally by the state-owned entity, Transnet, which will serve the
African continent.
The locomotive is specifically customised to African conditions and is suitable
for use on branch lines and in shunting yards.
Transnet designed the original underframe, superstructure, bogies, body and locomotive control system to withstand the
African environment and is needs-specific to the continent.
Through the Trans Africa Locomotive, Transnet has heeded the resolution taken at the 2015 Heads of State and
Government Summit of the African Union in Addis Ababa, for South Africa to champion the manufacturing and supply of rail
stock in Africa.
Other intended benefits of the Trans Africa Locomotive for South Africa and the continent include:
• regional integration
• localisation
• industrialisation
• skills development
• road-to-rail migration.
The prospective socio-economic spin-offs of the project are crucial in enabling government to address the triple challenge of
unemployment, poverty and inequality in the country, in line with the National Development Plan and Vision 2030.
SEZ programme attracting billions
South Africa’s Special Economic Zone (SEZ) programme is attracting billions in
foreign direct investment, says Trade and Industry Minister, Rob Davies.
There are eight designated zones in the country, namely: Saldanha Bay in
the Western Cape; Dube Trade Port and Richards Bay in KwaZulu-Natal; East
London and Coega in the Eastern Cape; the soon-to-be launched Maluti-a-
Phofung in the Free State; as well as the recently added Musina in Limpopo.
“The Musina-Makhado SEZ has been designated as the first zone under the
new SEZ Act, 2014. It will be established in the Vhembe region in Limpopo and
will focus on four major industrial clusters, which are energy and metallurgical,
agro-processing, petro-chemical, and trade and logistics,” said the Minister.
The new zone has so far attracted investment interest from Chinese consortia.
The total investment is currently estimated at approximately R56,9 billion.
“There has been a substantial increase in the number and value of secured but not yet operational investments. The total number
increased from 47 to 72, while total value increased to R41,2 billion. At least 13 of these investments are expected to be operational
within the next 12 months, as soon as infrastructure development is completed,” said Minister Davies.
The Minister highlighted some of the individual achievements of the SEZ such as the R11,5-billion China’s Beijing Automotive
Group Co. Ltd (BAIC) automotive investment in Coega; the R1,3-billion agreement with CIPLA to produce biosimilars at Dube Trade
Port; the R260-million new investment covering horticulture and metal refining at the OR Tambo Independent Development Zone
(IDZ), as well as the 2 000-MW Gas IPP awarded to the Richards Bay IDZ.
The SEZ Act, 2014 has been operational since 9 February 2016, and the work of the SEZ Advisory Board has since started.
The board is responsible for advising the Minister on policy and strategy issues as well as evaluation of the new applications for
the designation.
The SEZ programme is one of the critical instruments that the Department of Trade and Industry is using to accelerate
industrialisation in the country.
The programme, which has entered a full implementation phase, is important for attracting foreign direct investment, creating
decent jobs, establishing new industrial centres, as well as developing and improving the existing infrastructure.
 SAnews.gov.za
Ndalo Media secures landmark South African publishing licence for Elle magazines
In a milestone for South African publishing, Ndalo Media, publisher of the popular Destiny
magazine, is the new local publishers of international fashion magazine brand Elle, making it the
first wholly black-owned media company to secure exclusive licensing for one of the world’s oldest
and most popular magazine brands.
Ndalo Media, owned by Khanyi Dhlomo, announced on 4 April 2017 that it had secured the
South African licences for the Elle and Elle Decoration magazine brands. For the first time in Elle’s
21-year history in the country, the Paris-based media brand will be published by a 100% black-
owned media company.
In announcing the news, Dhlomo said her company’s licence for one of the longest-running fashion and lifestyle brands was a
milestone in South African publishing.
Despite tough competition in the global magazine market – an industry often dismissed as in decline against growing digital
migration – Dhlomo said the Elle brand’s “relevance, global leadership position and longevity” made it a solid investment for South
African readers. Ndalo has the exclusive licence to Elle’s print, digital and events extensions in South Africa.
Brandsouthafrica
Garden Route declared biosphere reserve
The Minister of Environmental Affairs, Edna Molewa, has welcomed the approval of the
Garden Route as a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation
(UNESCO) Biosphere Reserve.
“The positive response to the application to declare the Garden Route a biosphere
reserve is most encouraging, not just for us, as a country, but also for the people of the
region,” said Minister Molewa.
Biosphere reserves are learning places for sustainable development whose aim is
to reconcile biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources.
According to the Department of Environmental Affairs, UNESCO members voted in favour of the inclusion of the Garden Route
as a biosphere reserve at a meeting in Paris, France, recently.
“The Garden Route, one of South Africa’s prime tourism regions, is an area rich in terrestrial, coastal and marine ecosystems
where conservation of the rich biodiverse region is ably reconciled with sustainable use practices,” she said.
UNESCO states that biosphere reserves are nominated by national governments and remain under the sovereign jurisdiction of
the states where they are located.
Their status is internationally recognised.
The Garden Route Biosphere Reserve (GRBR) is the ninth such reserve to be declared in South Africa.
“The GRBG is located within the Cape Floristic biodiversity hotspot region along the southern coast of part of the country.
 “With a total area of 698 363 ha and a population of 450 624 people, the area includes the Tsitsikamma, Goukamma and Robberg
marine protected areas; Wilderness Lake Ramsar Site; Garden Route National Park; and two components of the Cape Floral
Region Protected Areas World Heritage site: the Nelson Bay Cave and the Langkloof Valley, the latter being critically endangered,”
the department said.
The official launch of the GRBG will take place later in the year.
 SAnews.gov.za
98 99Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

100 101
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
"Hidden Shadows
and Silent Voices of
Prison Number 4"

102 103
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
C
lint Strydom, in
collaboration with
Constitution Hill, and
co-curator, Gaisang
Sathekge, released a
powerful new body of
contemporary photographs on the Number 4
Prison Section in May 2017.
The exhibition, titled: Hidden Shadows and
Silent Voices of Prison Number  4, narrates
the fascinating story of this nefarious prison.
The Number 4 Prison Section was restricted
to male prisoners and was home to Nelson
Mandela, Mahatma Gandhi, Robert Sobukwe,
Oliver Tambo and thousands of other people
who were incarcerated here. This infamous
section is notorious for some of the worst
FEATURE
HIDDEN SHADOWS AND SILENT VOICES OF PRISON NUMBER 4FEATURE HIDDEN SHADOWS AND SILENT VOICES OF PRISON NUMBER 4
atrocities that happened within the Old Fort
Prison. Few know about the long tunnels and
tiny cells that lie beneath the streets of the
City of Johannesburg, the punishment racks,
the naked prisoners, the food deprivation, the
dirt and the cold.
The exhibition speaks to the fact that the
cells are now empty, the doors lie open and the
prisoners are free. However, the silent voices
hidden in the shadows remain custodians of
the memories, ensuring that we never forget
and never go back. As one walks through the
empty cells, the haunting presence hovers in
the thick musty air.
“The Old Fort Prison is a powerful place
of history – storied with a complex painful
narrative of South Africa’s brutal past.
Strydom’s work, using the high-res technology
of a Hasselblad camera, captures the
essence of the prison, portraying the shadows
and recording the silent cries that once roared
through the thick walls of incarceration.
"It’s a spirit-evoking body of photographs,
accentuating the history of the prison,” says
Sathekge.
Hidden Shadows and Silent Voices of
Prison Number 4 will help to give a voice to
those shadows who have remained silent for
so long.
"For this reason, I have agreed to donate
several of the works to Constitution Hill’s
permanent collection,” said Strydom.
The exhibition launched at Constitution Hill
on 18 May and will run until 27 August.

i
This year, Constitution Hill is launching the We the
People Campaign, a nationwide advocacy programme
designed to promote the Constitution and the values
it represents. It will encourage public participation and
ownership of the Constitution by the citizens of our
nation.
The campaign invites South Africans to contribute
their stories (past), their reflections (present), their
hopes and aspirations (future). The campaign focusses
on bringing out the voices of ordinary people. It is an
invitation to all South Africans to take a pledge for the
Constitution and support the rights enshrined therein.
It is aimed towards creating awareness and dialogue
around the highest law of the land to ensure that all
citizens can enjoy the liberty and protection espoused
in the Constitution.

104 105
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
"A New Wave" showcases
SA’s design talent
LIFESTYLEA NEW WAVE SHOWCASES SA’S DESIGN TALENTLIFESTYLE A NEW WAVE SHOWCASES SA’S DESIGN TALENT
104 105Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

106 107
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
LIFESTYLEA NEW WAVE SHOWCASES SA’S DESIGN TALENTLIFESTYLE A NEW WAVE SHOWCASES SA’S DESIGN TALENT
A
New Wave, a group exhibition
of the newest local collectible
design talent, which first
premiered at Southern Guild
Cape Town in August last year,
was recently on show at the
platform’s Johannesburg gallery.
The initial show was a huge success, with
some of the pieces subsequently on exhibit
at Design Miami 2016, with others auctioned
at Christie’s London Design Auction in April
2017.
The exhibition was the curated result of
a five-month-long process of finding never-
before-seen design pieces, guiding and
advising younger and emerging designers
and pushing them to take their work in more
interesting and groundbreaking directions.
Pieces produced for A New Wave included
Following the gallery’s call for submissions for new
work by designers under the age of 40, Southern
Guild received over 75 applications for
A New Wave.
furniture, lighting, ceramics, decorative art and
jewellery.  “A New Wave was a catalyst for the
eruption of new talent, challenging designers
to push themselves in ways they had not done
before to produce work that has since been
recognised on the international stage,” says
Southern Guild co-director, Trevyn McGowan.
A New Wave included works by: Chuma
Maweni, Douglas & Company, Eric Loubser,
Erika Wessels, Geraldine Fenn, Gone Rural,
Jan Bekker (Sirkel Jewellery), Kurt Pio,
LeRoux Hofmeyr, Madri van Zyl, Martine
Jackson, Morné Visagie, Neil Grantham
Studio, Nicole O’Reilly for Studio Studia,
Nora Kovats, Studio August, Studium, Trevor
Potter and others.
Following the gallery’s call for submissions
for new work by designers under the age of 40,
Southern Guild received over 75 applications
for A New Wave. Almost 40 designers were
shortlisted, after which they produced their
once-off or limited-edition pieces with the
guidance of Southern Guild founders.

southernguild.co.za

108 109
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
LIFESTYLEESTER MAHLANGU PAYS TRIBUTE TO MADIBALIFESTYLE ESTER MAHLANGU PAYS TRIBUTE TO MADIBA
Ester Mahlangu pays
tribute to Madiba
On 11 February 2017, Esther received the
Ubuntu Arts and Culture Diplomacy Award
(Veteran) – Public Vote. The award is given
to an individual or organisation that has
promoted a positive image of South Africa
through arts and culture and/or facilitated
cultural exchanges between South Africa
and no fewer than two other countries for a
minimum of 20 years. The annual awards,
Esther’s contribution to South African contemporary art and
the impression that she has left on so many people globally, as
she travels adorned in the beautiful traditional Ndebele dress,
makes her a national treasure
.
O
n 1 March 2017,
internationally renowned
artist, Esther Mahlangu,
joined Dr Makaziwe
Mandela and invited
guests to unveil an
important collection of artworks inspired by
former President Nelson Mandela at the
Melrose Gallery in Johannesburg.
Esther created this important body of work
in 2004, and says that it remains one of the
most rewarding collaborations of her long and
illustrious career. The paintings were created
by embellishing prints of drawings created by
Madiba in 2001 in her own style.
Dr Mandela, eldest daughter of the late
icon, and CEO of The House of Mandela,
said: “We are proud to be joining Mam Esther
Mahlangu to unveil her exquisite collection
for the first time. We are certain that these
artworks will work to contribute to and
celebrate my father’s legacy at a time in which
the world desperately needs his message of
peace, love and respect for all”.
Esther celebrated her 81st birthday in
November 2016, ending off a very busy and
exciting year with collaborations with BMW
at the Frieze Contemporary Fair in London,
John Legend and Belvedere Vodka. From
27 October 2016 to 26 February 2017, she
also exhibited at the British Museum as part
of the South Africa – Art of a Nation Exhibition.
Esther has exhibited with many of the most
renowned artists in the world. In 1991, she
was invited to be the 12th artist to paint a
BMW as part of the Art Car Collection, thereby
becoming the first woman and first African to
do so, joining an illustrious list of artists who
participated in this project, including Andy
Warhol, David Hockney, Roy Lichtenstein and
Frank Stella, among others.
Esther’s successful career has included
receiving the Order of Ikhamanga in Silver
in 2006 for her excellent contribution to the
development of the indigenous Ndebele
arts; a collaboration with American artist, Sol
LeWitt, at the fifth Biennale in Lyon France
in 2000; and being commissioned by the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts for two major
works for their permanent collection in 2014,
to name a few.
hosted by the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation, are held to
celebrate South African citizens who play
an active role in projecting a positive image
of South Africa internationally through their
good work.
Born on 11 November 1935, Esther lives in
the Mabokho Village of Weltevrede (Afrikaans
for “well satisfied”) in the KwaMahlanga
district in Mpumalanga. Esther’s contribution
to South African contemporary art and the
impression that she has left on so many
people globally, as she travels adorned
in the beautiful traditional Ndebele dress,
makes her a national treasure.
The exhibition, which ran until 2 April, also
included several other paintings that had
recently been created by Esther.

i
An “impossibly cute” BMW Isetta has been painted in a striking Ndebele
motif by internationally acclaimed artist, Esther Mahlangu. The classic
BMW microcar from the 1950s was a star exhibit at the Concours South
Africa at Sun City in August 2017.
 For Concours South Africa 2017, Esther was commissioned to paint the
late 1950s BMW Isetta 300 by KZN businesswoman Manana Nhlanhla.
Manana had the honour of winning the Show and Shine Category at
the inaugural Concours South Africa in September 2016, with her 1958
Mercedes-Benz 190 SL.
 Manana said: “We wanted to do something really special for this year’s
Concours South Africa. The BMW Isetta was actually chosen as a theme
car by my business partner, Sithembiso Mthethwa, as he has a vast
knowledge of all things to do with classic cars.
 “However, we should stress that the little Isetta is not being presented
as a concours car. It will be at Sun City only for display purposes. We
wanted this year’s beautiful Concours South Africa to have a distinct
African keynote, and the Isetta fills that role perfectly.”
 Manana said she was amazed to see Esther at work on the project:
“Esther uses a chicken feather as her brush to paint these cars freehand,
and although her designs feature lots of straight lines, she never uses a
ruler. That is quite remarkable for a woman who is 81-years-old!”

www.news24.co.za

110 111
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
LIFESTYLESKATEISTAN’S FIRST SKATE SCHOOL OPENS IN SALIFESTYLE ANOTHER MICHELIN FOR JAN RESTAURANT
A
cclaimed South African
chef, Jan Hendrik van der
Westhuizen, was delighted
to learn recently that his
restaurant JAN has retained
its Michelin star for 2017. In
2016, he became the first South African to
earn a Michelin star for his eatery, which is
based in Nice in the South of France.
Speaking from Nice, he said: “Since JAN
received its first star in 2016, the pressure
was clearly on and, like in the movie Burnt,
our natural instinct was to fear every guest.
“From kneading dough in the farmhouse kitchen during childhood in
Mpumalanga, South Africa, to running his own restaurant in Nice, France,
Jan-Hendrik’s journey has taken many unexpected turns
.”
That’s how bad it gets. The psychological
pressure is so intense that everything has to
be perfect”.
“The retention of the star becomes a mind-
occupation morning, noon and night and, after
putting your head on the pillow, it sometimes
continues into dreamland,” he laughed.
When asked if he now has his sights set
on a second star, Jan Hendrik said: “I am not
pushing myself or my team towards a second
star, but we are pushing ourselves to higher
and better. This is just what we do.”
For JAN, they are looking forward to a busy
season which might include a few more South
Africans joining the team in the kitchen. JAN
currently boasts three South Africans working
at the restaurant, including Kevin Grobler,
Rutger Eysvogel and Scott Armstrong.
“We will also be getting a permanent valet
service to take care of the small narrow street
parking problem all of Nice struggles with,”
says Van der Westhuizen who is a stickler for
ensuring every guest’s needs are met. This
will also attract more regulars from Monte
Carlo, Cannes and the rest of the Riviera.”
Apart from making certain that he includes
the best South African wines on his wine
list, he persistently looks at ways to reinvent
South African dishes that will appeal to a wider
market and a more refined palate; introducing
South African flavours and foodstuffs to
French and international diners.
Dishes on his menu include an edible candle
made with kaiings and pork lard and a dish
called “mieliepap and truffles”, which plays
on the humble maize ingredient paired with
what he calls “the diamond of the kitchen”.
Dishes such as braaied marshmallows, sago
pudding and the famous beskuit, are also big
favourites on the JAN menu. According to Jan
Hendrik’s website, his understanding of the
world was forged in the kitchens of his mother
and grandmothers.
“From kneading dough in the farmhouse
kitchen during childhood in Mpumalanga,
South Africa, to running his own restaurant
in Nice, France, Jan-Hendrik’s journey has
taken many unexpected turns.”
Every story has a beginning. “Mine started
at the tables of my mother and grandmother,
where the notion of true South African
hospitality seeped into my consciousness to
become the foundation on which I would later
build Restaurant JAN,” says Jan-Hendrik.
“As with so many creative souls, Jan-
Hendrik felt a strong calling for Cape Town.
After completing an Advanced Diploma in
Culinary Arts and a subsequent Master's
in Pastry, he made the leap into aesthetics,
enrolling for a Bachelor’s degree in Applied
Design with a focus on photography. Spending
a lot of time in the surrounding winelands
of the Stellenbosch region, he discovered a
love for wine and spent a few years plying his
trade in the South African wine industry. At the
same time, he continued to foster his love for
the visual arts by hosting a few solo painting
and photography exhibitions in Cape Town.
“Jan-Hendrik’s unique skill set led to a stint
as a contributing food editor and stylist at
ELLE South Africa, after which he packed his
bags to join the ranks at the test kitchens of
ELLE International’s Head Office in Paris. This
career move afforded him the opportunity to
co-found COORD Event Direction and launch
Champagne PIAFF in Epernay.
“Today, Jan-Hendrik spends his time
between the South of France and South
Africa, plying his trade as a chef, creative
and photographer. His main focus, however,
is JAN.”
Another Michelin for
JAN Restaurant
i
The Michelin Guide is published
annually and is the oldest European
restaurant guide which awards selected
establishments with Michelin stars for
excellence. Every year, the guide sends
unannounced inspectors – anything
ranging from couples to a party of six,
who then anonymously report back to
Michelin, re-evaluating restaurants and
making sure that what they serve is
worthy of the star. However, restaurants
have to maintain very high standards in
order for their Michelin star to be “re-
awarded” annually.
http://crushmag-online.com / www.janhendrik.com
www.wosa.co.za
A NEW
ERA FOR
THE SOUTH
AFRICAN
WINE
It’s been over two decades since South
Africa became a democracy. In that time
our wine industry has taken quantum
leaps forward. Plant improvement
programmes have been accelerated, and
we are establishing vineyards with clones
and varieties carefully chosen to suit
our specific climatic conditions, some in
new cooler climate areas. Older heritage
vineyards have been found and restored.
Our exports more than doubled between
2005 and 2015. This growth has been
driven by an exponential increase in
quality, with each year delivering exciting
new wineries, more innovative young
winemakers and even better wines.
Today, South African wines have achieved
international recognition and been
deemed among the most exciting in the
world, with adjectives like ‘rule-breaking’,
‘trailblazing’, ‘captivating’, ‘daring’ and
‘original’ increasingly linked to them by
influential  critics and sommeliers.
As UK wine writer and judge Tim Atkin MW
remarked in his South Africa 2015 Special
Report: “South Africa – with its diverse
terroirs, old vines and pure winemaking
talent – is one of the most dynamic
and exciting winemaking countries in the
New World.”
Wil Punt | Peartree Photography
Wosa Ads.indd   16 2016/04/13   6:58 PM

112 113
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Like the rest of South Africa, the Route 62 region is rich in and
famous for its variety of flora and fauna, from the world-famous
Garden Route bloom in September to the ostrich industries of
Oudtshoorn
.
LIFESTYLE SOUTH AFRICA’S ROUTE 62 IS WORLD’S BEST ROAD TRIP LIFESTYLESOUTH AFRICA’S ROUTE 62 IS WORLD’S BEST ROAD TRIP
A
CNN Travel poll, as voted
by tourists and travel
journalists, puts the scenic
and fun-filled road between
Cape Town and Oudtshoorn,
Route 62, as the top road-
South Africa’s Route 62
world’s best road trip
something for everyone, highlighting the
natural beauty of the region’s “fauna, rivers,
valleys and plains” and the diversity of
activities available that turn the seemingly
mundane commute into an adventure.
Everything and anything from wine tours
and safari drives, heritage and art tours,
hiking and mountain climbing, water sport
and fishing, or just quiet contemplation while
watching one-of-a-kind views with a cold drink
and a good meal, Route 62 has it all.
It is also the world’s longest wine route.
Incorporating hundreds of small, up-and-
coming winemakers and larger, more
established wine farms, Route 62’s world-
class wine route centres on the industry’s de
facto capital – the town of Robertson – where
not only can you visit the Klipdrift brandy
plant and see how this South African magic
is made, but you get to taste some of the
country’s award-winning wines. The town’s
annual Wacky Wine Festival (between April
and June) is a must-attend event, gathering
the best wines of the region for wine fans
with a sense of humour and a taste for the
adventurous.
trip destination in the world, beating a host
of legendary global grand tours, including
Canada’s Alcan Highway and the Ticlio Pass
in Peru.
While Route 62 primarily connects
Cape Town to Oudtshoorn, and ultimately
the Garden Route further east, a host of
attractions and activities along the road, and
off its beaten path, incorporate smaller towns
in the area, including Montagu, Humansdorp
and parts of the Klein Karoo. CNN calls the
road “a journey to the unexpected”, with
Just beyond Robertson, the mountain town
of Montagu is not only the home of South
Africa’s dried fruit and nut industry, but it also
has a popular natural spring spa and some of
the best rock climbing in Africa.
The route is also home to the Cango Caves.
Located inside the foothills of the Swartberg
range and just outside Oudtshoorn, this
extensive limestone system of tunnels and
chambers dates back millions of years, and
reaches almost 300 m underground.
Visitors can choose to see the caves as
part of a conventional walking tour, or do
something more daring in the Adventure
Tour. It offers guided climbing tours through
the caves’ darkest, narrowest and deepest
chambers.
Like the rest of South Africa, the Route
62 region is rich in and famous for its variety
of flora and fauna, from the world-famous
Garden Route bloom in September to the
ostrich industries of Oudtshoorn. Here,
visitors can ride an ostrich, buy ostrich curios
and even sample the famous ostrich steak.
There are a number of wildlife reserves, both
private and public, including the Touwsberg
Everything and anything from wine
tours and safari drives, heritage and art
tours, hiking and mountain climbing,
water sport and fishing, or just quiet
contemplation while watching one-of-a-
kind views with a cold drink and a good
meal, Route 62 has it all.
Nature Reserve, near the town of Ladismith,
and the Sanbona Reserve. The latter offers
both a heritage tour of the area’s indigenous
San culture and there’s a chance you’ll see
the only free-roaming white lions in the world.
Animals that can be spotted regularly in
the area include smaller buck: klipspringer,
steenbok, duiker and springbok, as well as
larger game such as wildebeest, kudu, giraffe,
gemsbok and the Cape mountain zebra.
Predators include leopard, rooikat and jackal.
Meerkat Magic, also outside Oudtshoorn, is
a one-of-a-kind research reserve, dedicated
exclusively to studying the habits of wild
meerkats. Open to the public, visitors can
join guided tours of meerkat colonies with
knowledgeable guides, and even learn how
these popular creatures communicate.
From the dusty hum of the Klein Karoo and
the lush, rolling valleys of the Breede River
to the never-ending Swartberg mountain
massifs in-between, while Route 62 might
offer the best food, drink and roadside
entertainment, there is still nothing that
compares to just stopping anywhere along the
route to appreciate the peaceful beauty of the
region’s diverse landscape.

CNN / www.brandsouthafrica.com / www.route62.co.za

114 115
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
The Orlando Towers bungee in Soweto has become a popular attraction, combining
adventure and township tourism. The experience includes a bungee jump, a tower swing (the
world's first between two cooling towers) and an internal tower swing and base jumping, all
off the top of the west tower, some 100 m up. The Orlando Towers played a significant role in
Soweto's history. To mark this, it has been painted to reflect the famous sons and daughters
of Soweto as well as traditional township scenes. It's believed to be the biggest mural in South
Africa and adds a creative edge to this historic landmark. The mural on Soweto's Orlando
Towers was hand-painted and took six months to complete.

116 117
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13

118 119
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
While the lush green fields, unspoilt beaches and rich cultural
heritage of KwaZulu-Natal might not be a travel “secret” for
South African travellers, the rest of the world is yet to discover
this magnificent province on South Africa's east coast
.
KZN makes Top 20
best-kept travel secrets
in the world list
LIFESTYLEKZN MAKES TOP 20 BEST-KEPT TRAVEL SECRETS IN THE WORLD LIST
119Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  118 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
LIFESTYLE KZN MAKES TOP 20 BEST-KEPT TRAVEL SECRETS IN THE WORLD LIST

120 121
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
I
n a recent travel wanderlust list put
together by tourism company Kuoni,
KwaZulu-Natal flies the South African
flag on the global Top 20 best-kept travel
secrets in the world.
Kuoni surveyed 303 experts and
2 000 travellers to compile their complete
list, saying "South Africa is an extraordinarily
diverse country, yet many visitors stick to
Cape Town, the Garden Route and a safari
experience.
"But beyond this, KwaZulu-Natal offers an
area rich in nature and history, with poignant
battlefields, dramatic mountains, game
reserves and golden beaches."
Apart from KZN, South Africa's
neighbouring country of Botswana also
makes the list, with a special mention of the
country's lesser-known zebra migration.
"The Great Migration of Kenya and
Tanzania is well known," Kuoni says. "But
home to the second-largest zebra migration in
the world is Botswana. Twenty-five thousand
zebra migrate to the Boteti River in the dry
winter months from their summer grazing
ground along the edge of the Makgadikgadi
Pans ..."
KZN and Botswana are featured
alongside other secret spots like Jaffna in
the north of Sri Lanka, El Nido Pangulasian
Island in the Philippines and the ancient
Mayan city of Yaxchilan in Mexico.
According to Kuoni spokesperson,
Rachel O’Reilly, it's the quiet spots that
make for the best experiences, especially
for the new generation of travellers.
“While the Grand Canyon, the Great
Wall of China and the Taj Mahal attract
thousands of visitors per year between
them and remain high on people’s wish lists,
a generation of travellers are now seeking
more secluded beauty spots.
“Beyond the main tourist attractions
the world has so much to offer and we’re
seeing a trend for people looking for
alternative places and experiences
away from the famous well-trodden
hotspots.”
 Traveller24
LIFESTYLEKZN MAKES TOP 20 BEST-KEPT TRAVEL SECRETS IN THE WORLD LISTLIFESTYLE KZN MAKES TOP 20 BEST-KEPT TRAVEL SECRETS IN THE WORLD LIST
Isandlwana BattlefieldKing Shaka Memorial, Stanger
Sheffield Beach, North Coast

122 123
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
Africa’s grandest gathering
The largest music event in sub-Saharan
Africa again boasted a star-studded line-up
that captivated jazz purists, world music fans,
fusion lovers and soul nostalgics.
The festival annually boasts five stages
with more than 40 artists performing over
two nights. The programming, unique to the
CTIJF, is made up of a 50/50 split between
LIFESTYLE
AFRICA’S GRANDEST GATHERING
The largest music event in sub-Saharan Africa, now in its 18th year,
again boasted a star-studded line-up that captivated jazz purists,
world music fans, fusion lovers and soul nostalgics.
A
ffectionately referred to
as “Africa’s Grandest
Gathering”, the Cape Town
International Jazz Festival
(CTIJF) was held from
31 March to 1 April 2017
at the Cape Town International Convention
Centre.
South African artists and international artists
respectively. The festival hosts in excess of
37 000 music lovers over the two show days.
Commenting on the CTIJF’s 2017 showcase,
Festival Director, Billy Domingo, reflected: “We
are undergoing a musical renaissance, where
different musical genres and performers are
collaborating to create new sounds for new
audiences who may come from different
walks of life, but who all appreciate what
music has to offer.
"The CTIJF has led the live musical journey
on the African continent for the past 17 years,
and now in our 18th we are continuing to
showcase new talent, new sounds, while
staging them alongside music masters.
"I couldn’t be happier with this line-up as
it’s a reflection of where we have come from,
where we are now and where we are going."
The Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi
Mthethwa, pointed out that: “The CTIJF, now
in its 18th edition, continues to attract the best
musicians from South Africa and abroad; and
the musical collaborations that result from this
rich engagement produce music that captures
the cultural imagination of our people, builds
continental cohesion and speaks to the world
at large”.
Artists at this year’s festival included:
Darren English (SA/United States of America
(USA), Deepak Pandit /Marcus Wyatt/ Ranjit
Barot (India/SA), Dope Saint Jude (SA), En
Vogue (USA), Escalandrum (Argentinia),
Ernie Smith (SA), Gretchen Parlato (USA),
Jonas Mosa Gwangwa & Friends (SA), Jazz
Funk Soul With Everette Harp, Jeff Lorber
& Paul Jackson Jr (USA), Judith Sephuma
(SA), Laura Mvula (UK), Siya Makuzeni (SA),
Soweto String Quartet (SA), Taylor Mcferrin
And Marcus Gilmore (USA), Jameszoo
(Netherlands), Jokko (Senegal), Mango
Groove (SA), Pops Mohamed (SA) and Sonik
Citizen (SA).
The official sponsors for the 18th annual
CTIJF were the Department of Arts and
Culture, Independent Media, Passenger Rail
Agency of South Africa, and host city, the
City of Cape Town. Other sponsors included
Johnny Walker, Amstel and South African
Tourism.

124 125
Issue 13 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 13
South Africa is home to the largest wine cellar in the world. According to the Guinness World
Records, the KWV cellars in Paarl cover an area of 22 hectares (54 acres) and have a capacity of
121 million litres. The Cathedral Cellar features a barrel-vaulted roof, stained glass windows, and
granite and wood inlaid floors. It was built in 1930 and restored to splendour in 2005.
South Africa has the longest wine route in the world. Route 62 stretches over 850 km from Cape
Town to Port Elizabeth, making it the longest wine route in the world. The road takes one through
many small but picturesque towns such as Paarl, Robertson, McGregor, Oudtshoorn and Ceres.