seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue25_revised.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue25_revised.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue25_revised.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 25
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
“Let us continue to work as one nation, united and
determined.
“We have done it before. We can do it again.
“There will come a day when this pandemic will be
over.
“On that day, we must be able to look one another in
the eye and say: ‘We gave it our all, we each played
our part, we worked together as one nation, and we
prevailed’.”
– President Cyril Ramaphosa
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger – burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Yandisa Monakali, Katlholo Maifadi and Yolande Snyman, Department of International Relations
and Cooperation; Government Communication and Information System; South African Tourism; UN Photo; Jumping Kids
Facebook page; Cornell Tukiri; Working on Fire Facebook page; South African Radio Astronomy Observatory; Sam Challis
and Brent Sinclair-Thomson; @TeamSA2020 Twitter page; Mountain Bike New Zealand Facebook page; @WorldAthletics
Twitter page; Melrose Gallery; and Atterbury Theatre
Acknowledgements
President Cyril Ramaphosa; Dr GNM Pandor, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister
of Tourism; Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities; Barbara Creecy, Minister
of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment; Prof. Anil Sooklal, Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East, Department
of International Relations and Cooperation; Dr Bobby J Moroe, Deputy High Commissioner of South Africa to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria; Rebecca Williams, Acting High Commissioner, New Zealand High Commission to South Africa; Dr Fatou
Bensouda, former International Criminal Court Chief Prosecutor; Liani Maasdorp, Senior Lecturer in Screen Production
and Film and Television Studies, University of Cape Town; Meshandren Naidoo, PhD Fellow and LexisNexis Legal Content
Researcher and Editor, University of KwaZulu-Natal; Lulama Ndibongo Traub, Technical Chair, Regional Network of
Agricultural Policy Research Institutes, Stellenbosch University; Thomas Jayne, MSU Foundation Professor, Agricultural,
Food and Resource Economics, Michigan State University; Wandile Sihlobo, Visiting Research Fellow, Wits School of
Governance, University of the Witwatersrand (Wits); Brent Lindeque, www.goodthingsguy.com; Carlos Lopes, Professor at
the Nelson Mandela School of Public Governance, University of Cape Town; Fangxia An, Postdoctoral Researcher, Inter-
University Institute for Data Intensive Astronomy and Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of the Western
Cape; Sam Challis, Senior Researcher, Wits; Brent Sinclair-Thomson, Support Staff, Wits; Adam Haupt, University of Cape
Town; Gary Lemke, www.teamsa.co.za; SA Tourism; SAnews.gov.za; https://africanyouthsummit.com; SASCOC;
www.worldsurfleague.com; www.sowetanlive.co.za; https://briefly.co.za; www.sapeople.com; and www.shimansky.co.za
Advertisers
Ubuntu Radio, African Union, World Food Programme, Freedom Park, Iziko Museums of South Africa, City of Cape Town,
Department of Environmental Affairs, Brand SA, Government Communication and Information System, Ugu South Coast
Development Agency and SA Mint
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation, e-mail address and delivery
address in the body to kolio@dirco.gov.za.
Back-issue enquiries
kolio@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
Advertising
Nthabiseng Makuwa – makuwan@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0388
Distribution
Olwethu Koli – kolio@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0006

Lifestyle
108
76
contents
Diplomacy
In every issue
The fascinating case study
of the Salt River murals
“My world” in one theatre
LIFESTYLE
Feature
UBUNTU magazine – issue 25
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6  Letter from the Minister
8 Publisher’s note
98   Survey reveals South Africa’s most iconic products
100  These South African resorts are some of the best in the world
104  South African jewellery brand shines in Las Vegas
106  The art landscape in South Africa
108 The fascinating case study of the Salt River murals
110 Great small-town foodie stops
112 South Africa's largest sculpture fair now open
115 “My world” in one theatre
12  Let us, together with the UN, write a new history for humankind
16   BRICS is of immense strategic importance to South Africa
18   UN central to SA’s foreign engagement
20   Let us be the architects of our common future
22   Reflections on youth and racism 20 years later
26   We stand with the people of Palestine
28   Honouring the spirit of Charlotte Maxeke
32   BRICS united in its vision
38  Peace and justice must co-exist for both to thrive
42  African Green Stimulus Programme a source of pride
44  GBVF: We can eradicate this scourge together
46  South African and Nigerian youth must collaborate in pooling
indigenous knowledge for job creation
52  Celebrating 100 years of rugby between New Zealand and
South Africa: How sport can bring people together, inspire and
unify
56   Liberation heritage: Tsietsi Mashinini
58  Rebuilding the tourism sector post-COVID-19
62  How a film is fighting the erasure of South African activist
Dulcie September
64  In a world first, South Africa grants patent to an Artificial
Intelligence system
68 WoF praised after successful expedition in Canada
Analysis of 2 000 galaxies using the MeerKat radio telescope
reveals fresh insights
70  African youth speak out for the protection of our oceans
72  Research and development are key to resilient food systems in Africa
74  Africa has a great strategic plan: Now it needs to roll up its sleeves
and take action
76   Analysis of 2 000 galaxies using the MeerKat radio telescope reveals
fresh insights
78  South Africa’s bandit slaves and the rock art of resistance
80  The first-ever dictionary of South Africa’s Kaaps language has
launched – why it matters
84  SA Paralympians inspire the nation
86   The man behind the blades uplifting our youth
88  Proudly South African: Our Tokyo Olympic medallists
90 Flying the flag
115
12
Let us, together
with the UN,
write a new history
for humankind
100
These South African resorts are
some of the best in the world

Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
6 7
Letter from the minister
apply universally and not for a privileged few.
Our Constitution firmly affirms those beliefs.
 Idah Mtwana, Helen Joseph and Ray
Alexander came from vastly different
backgrounds, yet are united in the Constitution
by the full recognition of the rights of workers
and the protections they should enjoy. Mary
Burton promoted gender equality and the
rights of all, drawing on these brave men and
women and their core beliefs.
 The sacrifices, bravery and fearlessness of
the young people of 1976, of Mashinini, Hector
Peterson, Antoinette Peterson and thousands
of others gave life to the right to education and
to children’s rights in our document.
 Those who shaped the Constitution of South
Africa number millions. It does not belong to a
few; it is our instrument of freedom honouring
Kwame Nkurumah, Patrice Lumumba and
Sekotore.
 We in Parliament and government have
a critical role to play in honour of these men
and women and millions others. We need
to consistently ensure that the ambitions
of service to the people are honoured and
realised; that we do support the maturing of a
nation united in its diversity. And, that all rights
enshrined in the Constitution are accessed
and enjoyed by all people in South Africa. We
strive for this not just for ourselves but for all
men and women who suffer oppression and
exclusion today. This is why we are mandated
to stand shoulder to shoulder with the people
of Palestine, of Saharawi, of Cuba and of
Myanmar. They too will overcome as our
leaders and our people ensured South Africa
overcame.
 This history of framing our Constitution
must be read today alongside the still visible
remnants of systematic exploitation and
discrimination that continue to scar our nation
due to centuries of colonialism and exclusion.
The key challenge all of us face is to strengthen
our efforts at reversing the precarious socio-
economic situation in which millions of the most
vulnerable find themselves. We acknowledge
that much has been achieved but the full
realisation of our Constitution demands much
more of each of us.
fought for by the Khoisan in the beginning of
the struggle. Their desire to settle on their land
and derive sustenance from it, to breed and
rear their cattle and not to be pushed to the
margins are embodied in the transformative
land rights and recognition of communities
elaborated in 1996.
 The epic confrontations of the frontier wars
of the Xhosa, the Basotho and the Barolong,
their dispossession and displacement and
their yearnings are mirrors in the aspirations
of nationhood and unity in the Constitution.
The brave heroism of Makhanda, Xhosa,
Moshoeshoe, Bathoeng and Sekhukhune
reverberate.
 Our Constitution was crafted over centuries
of experience. This is why we can refer to the
African claims of 1946, the Freedom Charter
of 1955, the Sharpeville Massacre of 1960, the
assertion that Africa is for Africans by Robert
Sobukwe and the courage and steadfastness
of Steven Bantu Biko in his belief that given
opportunity, the oppressed will achieve
excellence and determine their destiny.
 Added to these influences are illustrious
women fighters such as Charlotte Maxeke,
who showed women’s place in the struggle.
Albertina Sisulu, who withstood banning, prison
and brutal assault on family, yet emerged with
dignity and compassion for South Africa and all
her people. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who
would never give up believing that struggle
would lead to victory. It is Mama Winnie whose
undying spirit must persuade us to consistently
believe that the progressive ambitions of our
Constitution will be realised and that we must
never tire of wanting to achieve realisation of
its key goals for every person in South Africa.
 There is the leadership of Oliver Tambo and
the African National Congress' constitutional
committee in formulating Ready to Govern to
prepare for drafting a constitution that draws
from our history, our lived experience and our
ambitions. Luminaries such as Kader Asmal,
Zola Skweyiya and Frene Ginwala all played
a role. Human rights lawyers such as Justice
Mohammed, Arthur Chaskalson and Nelson
Mandela believed just laws and accessible
judicial institutions were plausible and should
T
his year, we commemorate 25
years since the adoption of the
Constitution of a South Africa
finally freeing itself from the
shackles of apartheid.
We agreed that our thematic
focus for 2021 would be extolling and
recollecting our national heroine Charlotte
Maxeke, a woman of distinction who marked
her place in history through excellence,
commitment and service. It is absolutely
fitting to mark such heroes and heroines as
they have left an indelible mark on the socio-
political landscape of our country.
 The compilation and adoption of our
Constitution was one of the boldest decisions
taken by our infant democracy. It signalled
a decisive and necessary break with our
past while simultaneously setting out clear,
progressive, and even radical aspirations for
the future.
 Our Constitution is the result of a long
journey by the people of South Africa, of Africa
and the world. It draws us together in a manner
that no single legal instrument does and is
extraordinary testimony of the ingenuity and
humanity of millions of South Africans and the
legion of men, women and communities who
entrenched the values and principles that are
emphatically elaborated in it.
 The Constitution weaves together the
struggles for humane treatment and fair play
Our Constitution is the result of a long journey by the people of South Africa, of Africa
and the world. It draws us together in a manner that no single legal instrument does
and is extraordinary testimony of the ingenuity and humanity of millions of South Africans
and the legion of men, women and communities who entrenched the values and
principles that are emphatically elaborated in it.
Recognise the injustices of our past;
Honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land;
Respect those who have worked to build and develop our country; and
Believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity.
We therefore, through our freely elected representatives, adopt this
Constitution as the supreme law of the Republic so as to -
Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic
values, social justice and fundamental human rights;
Lay the foundations for a democratic and open society in which
government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally
protected by law;
Improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each
person; and
Build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place
as a sovereign state in the family of nations.
May God protect our people.
Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika. Morena boloka setjhaba sa heso.
God seёn Suid-Afrika. God bless South Africa.
Mudzimu fhatutshedza Afurika. Hosi katekisa Afrika.
(Preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa)
ONE CONSTITUTION , ONE NATION
WE, THE PEOPLE
OF SOUTH AFRICA,

Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
8 9
Publisher’s note | Let’s talk foreign policy...
O
n 22 July 2021, the
Chairperson of the African
Union Commission (AUC)
accredited Israel to the
AU, which has created
an unprecedented strong
response and objection from AU member
states, at all political levels. So far, the AU has
accredited over 170 non-African states and
organisations.
 Throughout the years, accreditation of
a new non-African state to the AU has been
a non-event and never created so much
controversy as has been the case with Israel.
 On 6 August 2021, after receiving a lot
of criticism and objections from member
states and interest groups, the Chairperson
issued a communiqué. A reading of the
communiqué raises several legal and political
questions related to the AU Constitutive
Act and other relevant policy documents.
 The arguments or criteria that the
Chairperson cited in his communiqué were
based purely on an alleged number of
member states (he indicates that it is 46)
that have established or reinstated bilateral
relations with the concerned State. However,
the Criteria for Accreditation of non-African
states clearly indicate as the first criterion that
the aims and purposes of non-African states
shall be in conformity with the spirit, objectives
and principles of the Constitutive Act of the AU.
 The State of Israel has been described
by numerous Organisation of African Unity
(OAU)/AU decisions and resolutions as
an occupying force of Palestine, therefore
violating the principle of prohibition of use of
force mentioned in the Constitutive Act and
international conventions.
 Furthermore, the criteria outline the
process of accreditation of non-African states
and indicate that the Chairperson should
consider the decisions of the AU and bear
in mind the supreme interests of the union
and the concerns of its member states. All
OAU/AU decisions recognise the Palestinian
people’s legitimate rights to self-determination,
liberation, independence and full sovereignty.
 The Chairperson also used the term
"more than two-third majority" in an attempt
to legitimise this grave violation of the
Constitutive Act of the AU and the criteria for
the accreditation system for non-African states.
If his decision was indeed made by receiving
the approval of this number of member states,
this could mean that the Chairperson had
only consulted parts of the organisation and
disregarded the rest of the member states.
Again, this in itself would be a violation of
his mandate and procedure, and therefore,
setting a dangerous legal precedence. The
usual procedure calls for gaining the two-thirds
majority only through official communication
by member states to the commission,
which in this case was never received.
 The Chairperson justified his decision
by taking into consideration "the expressed
demand" of more than two thirds of AU member
states. There is no documentation or evidence
showing what the Chairperson referred to as
"expressed demand of member states”. On the
contrary, 24 member states expressed officially
and publically their objection and rejection to
his decision; he described them as "a few".
 The Chairperson went further and used non-
diplomatic terminology when he used the word
“a few” in the last paragraph to describe and
refer to member states that officially rejected his
unilateral decision. The Constitutive Act gives
equal sovereignty to all member states and so
the expression “a few member states” not only
belittles and undermines certain members of
the AU but could be interpreted to mean that
the Chairperson does not take the concerns of
those expressing objection into consideration.
The criteria indicate that if any member state,
which means one or more, objects to the
accreditation, the issue should be tabled at
the Executive Council for review. When the
criteria clearly give the full weight for just one
member state to object, how is it possible
for the Chairperson of the commission to
describe 24 member states as simply “a few”?
The criteria give the sole prerogative of
the granting, suspension and withdrawal
of accreditation of a non-African state to
member states. This clause of the criteria
contradicts the Chairperson's statement that
this "falls within his full sphere of competence”.
Therefore, this decision of the Chairperson
should be suspended or withdrawn.
 The Chairperson should have
acknowledged the concerns raised and
officially communicated by many member
states. He needs to lead by example and
reassure member states that he holds the
oath he has taken before the heads of state
and government very seriously and that he
would always ensure consensus in decision-
making of issues of importance to the AU and
its image and credibility in the global arena.
 The Chairperson who made the decision
on 22 July 2021 after being confirmed for
a second and last term at the helm of the
AUC, is in contradiction of the person who
made a strong and principled declaration
against United States President Donald
Trump's decision in December 2017 to
recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
 Throughout history, organisations
committed unintentional mistakes or political
oversight, which negatively affected image
and credibility. However, what is important
is to remedy the situations that arise from
these oversights. History would mostly
recognise the steps taken to correct the
mistakes rather than the mistakes themselves.
 After the decision of the Southern African
Development Community Summit, the total
number of member states that have so far
rejected the Chairperson’s unilateral decision
on Israel has increased to 24. This shows
that the accreditation of Israel is a source of
division among AU member states, thereby
jeopardising its unity, which is a source of pride
for the continent and an embodiment of the
spirit of Pan-Africanism. There is an absolute
need to separate bilateral relations which
countries have with Israel from the interests
and objectives of the union as contained in
the AU Constitutive Act. The unity of the AU is
seen as the supreme interest and ensure that
the Africa We Want is always united, strong
and speaking with one voice.
 This matter has now been referred to the
Assembly of Heads of State in early 2022 for a
decision. We are hopeful that the leadership of
the continent will make the right call.
@ClaysonMonyela

Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
10 11
Table Bay is a natural bay on the Atlantic Ocean overlooked by Cape Town and Table Mountain
and is located at the northern end of the Cape Peninsula, which stretches south to the Cape of Good Hope.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
12
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  13
WRITE A NEW HISTORY FOR HUMANKINDLET US, TOGETHER, WITH THE UN, WRITE A NEW HISTORY FOR HUMANKIND
Let us, together with the UN as our instrument, write a new history for humankind –
one of equality, freedom, fundamental rights and shared prosperity for all, leaving no-
one behind.
Let us, together with the UN,
write a new history for humankind
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
T
he COVID-19 pandemic has
forever changed the nature of
multilateral engagement, of
diplomacy, and of business. And
yet, even as we are separated
by the expanses of geography,
the noble ideals of fellowship, solidarity and
cooperation stand firm.
 They are the bedrock on which the United
Nations (UN) was formed 76 years ago, and
they have been our guide as we confront
the worst global health emergency in over a
century.
 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused great
devastation around the world. Millions of lives
have been lost and livelihoods have been
destroyed. It has shaken our sense of well-
being and security.
 Yet, the strong bonds of solidarity between
nations have enabled us to overcome great
challenges.
The pandemic has been a stark reminder of our
mutual dependency, and that instability in one region
of the world inevitably impacts its neighbours.
It was through multilateral solidarity, support
and cooperation between member states that
countries were able to access much-needed
medical equipment and supplies.
 In dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic,
it is generally agreed that vaccines are the
greatest defence that humanity has against
the ravages of this pandemic. It is therefore a
great concern that the global community has
not sustained the principles of solidarity and
cooperation in securing equitable access to
COVID-19 vaccines.
 It is an indictment on humanity that more
than 82% of the world’s vaccine doses have
been acquired by wealthy countries, while less
than 1% has gone to low-income countries.
 Unless we address this as a matter of
urgency, the pandemic will last much longer
and new mutations of the virus will spread and
emerge.
 South Africa reaffirms its call for fair and
equitable distribution of vaccines.
We urge all member states to support the
proposal for a temporary waiver of certain
provisions of the Agreement on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights at
the World Trade Organisation to allow more
countries, particularly low- and middle-income
countries, to produce COVID-19 vaccines.
 In this interconnected world, no country is
safe until every country is safe.
 We need to prepare now for future
pandemics and work with greater determination
towards the goal of universal health coverage.
In the wake of COVID-19, we must increase
investment towards the achievement of the
Sustainable Development Goals by providing
low-income countries with the means of
implementation.
 In this respect, the G20 Debt Standstill
Initiative is a welcome response to the
fiscal and liquidity challenges faced by least
developed economies.
The agreement on the allocation of
US$650 billion in Special Drawing Rights is
significant, but it is insufficient to meet the
extent of the need.
 South Africa therefore reiterates its call
for 25% of the total allocation, amounting to
around US$165 billion, to be made available to
the African continent.
 Climate change is an existential crisis
for the entire world, yet, poor countries are
particularly vulnerable.
 Although we bear the least responsibility for
causing climate change, African countries are
among those that carry the greatest cost.
 For the forthcoming COP 26 in Glasgow to
respond adequately to the crisis we face, we
need to see greater ambition and progress
on mitigation, adaptation and the means of
implementation.
 COP26 must therefore launch a formal
programme of work on the implementation of
the Global Goal on Adaptation.
 The pandemic has been a stark reminder
of our mutual dependency, and that instability
in one region of the world inevitably impacts its
neighbours.
 That is why we seek to enhance the
relationship between the UN and the African
Union (AU) in maintaining peace, financing,
peacebuilding efforts and advancing post-
conflict reconstruction and development.
 South Africa continues with its efforts to
contribute to international peace and security
through our membership of the Peacebuilding
Commission and our continued engagement
and involvement in UN peacekeeping.
The right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination has been raised in the General
Assembly for almost as long as this body has
been in existence.
 We raise it again, not because we are bound
by practice or habit to do so, but because we
resolutely believe that there shall be no peace
and no justice until the Palestinian people are
free from occupation and are able to exercise
the rights for which the UN stands.
 We have a responsibility, as the nations
of the world, to spare no effort in finding a
just, lasting and peaceful solution based on
internationally agreed parameters enshrined in
the relevant UN resolutions.
 We reiterate our position that the people
of Western Sahara have the right to self-
determination in line with the relevant AU
decisions and UN Security Council resolutions.
South Africa further affirms its solidarity with
the Cuban people and calls for the lifting
of the economic embargo that has caused
untold damage to the country’s economic
development. We also call for a lifting of the
sanctions that are crippling Zimbabwe and its
economy.
 This year marks 12 years since the start of
the Inter-Governmental Negotiations process
and 16 years since the World Summit of 2005,
where world leaders unanimously agreed on
early reform of the Security Council.
 We have not honoured this undertaking.
 South Africa reiterates its call for urgent
reform and a move to text-based negotiations
through which an agreement can ultimately be
reached.
 We must address the underrepresentation
of the African continent in the UN system, and
ensure that the voice of the African continent
wherein 1,3 billion people reside and also of
the Global South in general, is strengthened in
the multilateral system.
 Concurrent with achieving equitable
geographical representation in the UN, we
must also address the question of gender
parity.
 In September 2021, we marked the 20th
anniversary of the adoption of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action at
the World Conference against Racism in
South Africa.
 This remains the international community’s
blueprint for action to fight racism and other
forms of intolerance.
 We are bound by a common responsibility
to fight both the legacy of past racism and the
manifestation of racism in the present. Racism,
like sexism, xenophobia and homophobia,
demeans all of us.
 It undermines our humanity and stifles our
efforts to build a world rooted in tolerance,
respect and human rights.
 Let us use this anniversary to renew our
commitment to combatting racism, to eliminate
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerances wherever they are found.
 The challenges we face are immense.
 We have to drive the global recovery.
 We have to implement the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development.
 We have to advance gender equality and
the empowerment of women.
 We have to address climate change,
maintain peace and security and protect
society’s most marginalised.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
14
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  15
The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, concluded her visit to New York on Friday, 24 September 2021, where
she participated in person in the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA76), held under the theme: “Building Resilience
through Hope – To Recover from COVID-19, Rebuild Sustainably, Respond to the Needs of the Planet, Respect the Rights of People, and Revitalise
the United Nations”.
 Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the General Debate and high-level meetings of UNGA76 were held in a hybrid in-person and virtual
format.
 President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered pre-recorded statements at the High-Level Meeting on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action (DDPA) against Racism, and at the General Debate of UNGA76. In both recorded statements, President
Ramaphosa stressed that the international community must redouble its efforts to build a world free of racism and all forms of discrimination and
stand united in combatting the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Minister Pandor chaired a roundtable of the High-Level Meeting on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the DDPA, themed: “Reparations,
Racial Justice and Equality for People of African Descent – Where do we Stand 20 Years after the Adoption of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action”, and also presented the summary of the roundtable discussion at the closing segment of the meeting.
 In addition to chairing the roundtable, Minister Pandor also delivered a statement and lamented the fact that some countries decided not to take
part in this commemorative event at a time when incidents of racism and racial injustice continued to occur globally. Nonetheless, member states
adopted a political declaration aimed at mobilising political will at national, regional and international levels for the full and effective implementation
of the DDPA and its follow-up processes.
 Minister Pandor, together with the Italian Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Sereni, presided over the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty (CTBT) Article XIV Conference, held on the margins of UNGA76. In her remarks, Minister Pandor stated that this conference was an
opportunity for the international community to highlight the dangers and threats posed to international peace and security by nuclear weapons and
tests. “We believe that the conference should be part of sustained and redoubled efforts to encourage the signing and ratification of the treaty,” said
Minister Pandor. A declaration and measures to promote the entry-into-force of the CTBT were adopted as an outcome of the meeting.
 Minister Pandor delivered a recorded statement at the World Food Systems Summit and at the High-Level Meeting on the International Day for
the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons on 28 September 2021.
 In addition, Minister Pandor attended several ministerial side events such as the Informal Network of Women Foreign Ministers Dinner and the
High-Level Meeting on the situation in Libya. Furthermore, Minister Pandor addressed the Council on Foreign Relations on topical issues such
as the state of democracy in sub-Saharan Africa, South Africa’s response to COVID-19 as well as other regional and international foreign policy
matters.
 While in New York and on the margins of UNGA, Minister Pandor met with António Guterres, UN Secretary-General; Abdulla Shahid, President
of UNGA76; and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, former President of Liberia and Co-Chair of the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and
Response. Minister Pandor also held bilateral discussions with 16 foreign ministers from Africa, Asia and the Middle East, Europe, Latin America
and the Caribbean.
 In her media engagements on the sidelines of UNGA76, Minister Pandor stated that this year’s UNGA highlighted a number of global challenges
such as the inequity in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, growing inequalities between states and within states, rising human rights violations
and conflicts in several countries. In this regard, world leaders must step up to the plate and address these challenges through multilateral
cooperation, with the UN at the centre.
 Before concluding her visit to New York, Minister Pandor officially opened the South African Consulate-General to New York’s Cultural Centre,
which showcased an inaugural exhibition of Prof. Zakes Mda’s artwork.
i
Above all, we must close the wounds of
poverty, inequality and underdevelopment that
are preventing societies from realising their full
potential.
 This can only be done within the framework
of a revitalised and reformed multilateral system,
with a strong and capable UN at its centre.
At this defining moment, the General Assembly
of the nations of the world is once again called
upon to inspire, to guide and to lead.
 The UN stands as a beacon of hope for all
who dream of a better world.
 Let us, together with the UN as our
instrument, write a new history for humankind
– one of equality, freedom, fundamental rights
and shared prosperity for all, leaving no-one
behind.
LET US, TOGETHER WITH THE UN, WRITE A NEW HISTORY FOR HUMANKIND

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
16
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  17
In the 11 years since we joined BRICS, our membership has substantially advanced
our national interest. Being a member of BRICS has enhanced our position as an
important emerging economy.
is of immense strategic importance
to South Africa
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
A
  year before the first democratic
elections, President Nelson
Mandela wrote an article in
Foreign Policy magazine on
the new South Africa’s future
foreign policy.
 Reflecting on the shifts in global alliances
brought about by the end of the Cold War,
he wrote that countries would have to “recast
their nets” if they were to reap any benefit from
international affairs.
 Since the tectonic shift of 1994, when we
made a decisive break with not just apartheid
but the international relations outlook of
its architects, South Africa’s foreign policy
continues to be characterised by this “recasting
the net”.
BRICS IS OF IMMENSE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE TO SOUTH AFRICABRICS IS OF IMMENSE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE TO SOUTH AFRICA
Our foreign policy priorities are regional
political and economic integration, pursuing
African development, multilateral engagement
and the promotion of democracy, peace and
human rights.
 To this end, we have forged strategic
alliances with both the countries of the Global
South and mutually beneficial cooperation with
the countries of the North.
 Joining the BRICS group of countries in
2010 was a milestone in our quest to advance
our own national development priorities
by forging stronger ties with the important
emerging economies of Brazil, Russia, India
and China.
 Put into context, BRICS countries comprise
roughly 42% of the world’s population and
securing personal protective equipment and
cooperation around vaccine access and
distribution.
 We recently participated in the 13th BRICS
Summit, where BRICS countries agreed to
deepen cooperation to fight COVID-19 and
mobilise the political support and financial
resources needed to respond to future
pandemic preparedness.
 This includes the establishment of a virtual
BRICS Vaccine Research and Development
Centre and a BRICS Integrated Early
Warning System to forecast future outbreaks
of infectious diseases.
 Another important area of agreement was
on mutual recognition of national documents
of vaccination and systems of COVID-19
testing – something that will be vital to cross-
border travel in the future.
 The concept of mutually beneficial
cooperation will be particularly important in
the global economic recovery, where unequal
development means that some countries will
bounce back quickly, while others will lag
behind.
 In support of economic recovery, BRICS
partners agreed to strengthen collaboration
in catalytic sectors such as energy, IT,
science, technology and innovation,
agriculture and the green economy. These
are all important sectors identified in our
Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan
announced last year.
 Cooperation with other BRICS countries,
particularly in the field of innovation
research, will help to accelerate our country’s
industrialisation and help us meet our Fourth
Industrial Revolution aspirations. In this
regard, discussions were held around the
creation of formal BRICS platforms to share
best practice, knowledge and expertise,
including the use of open source technology
platforms.
 The BRICS partners agreed that
developing countries needed assistance
to achieve the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals, and that donor countries
should honour their commitments in this
regard.
 This is particularly important within the
context of climate action. Like most countries,
South Africa seeks to move towards a low-
carbon development path that is inclusive,
sustainable and that takes into account our
status as a developing country. The BRICS
Energy Research Cooperation Platform
will be valuable as we move to diversify our
energy sources.
 In the 11 years since we joined BRICS, our
membership has substantially advanced our
national interest. Being a member of BRICS
has enhanced our position as an important
emerging economy. It has given us access
to policy and technical expertise of larger and
established economies, as well as access to
the support of the NDB. It has strengthened
our activism on the global stage, particularly
around the reform of multilateral institutions.
 We have benefitted from being part of a
collective voice striving to advance a world
order based on mutual respect and the equal
sovereignty of nations.
 BRICS is of immense strategic importance
to our country, and will continue to be so for
some time to come.

account for around 23% of global gross
domestic product and some 16% of global
trade.
 We have reaped the benefits of membership
of this important bloc, most notably in the area
of economic cooperation.
 Bilateral trade has grown, particularly with
China and India, with commodity exports
and manufactured goods imports featuring
strongly.
 The BRICS countries continue to be
important sources of foreign direct investment
in key areas such as mining, automotive,
transportation, clean energy, financial services
and IT.
 A 2018 review of our BRICS membership
by professional services firm Deloitte noted
that BRICS partners “invested three times
more capital in the country compared to the
seven years prior to 2011”. These investments
and projects have in turn led to significant job
creation.
 Since the formation of the New
Development Bank (NDB), whose regional
office is located in Johannesburg, South
Africa has been a beneficiary of financing and
technical support for projects in transportation,
clean energy, environmental protection, water
infrastructure and greenhouse gas emissions
reduction.
 Since the outbreak of the COVID-19
pandemic, South Africa has received
US$2 billion in funding from the NDB
under the COVID-19 Emergency Loan
Programme to fight the pandemic and to
support our economic recovery.
 There has also been substantial
cooperation with our BRICS partners in

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
18
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  19
UN CENTRAL TO SA’S FOREIGN ENGAGEMENTUN CENTRAL TO SA’S FOREIGN ENGAGEMENT
The centrality of the UN to South Africa’s foreign engagement is in part based on a
strong belief in collective and equitable global governance, but also because of the
organisation’s role in the fight against apartheid.
UN central to SA’s foreign engagement
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
F
or South Africa, the United
Nations (UN) will always have
special meaning.
 Since 1994, a primary foreign
policy priority for South Africa has
been to promote an international
rules-based system through active and
constructive participation in multilateral
institutions and processes. Pursuing these
principles through multilateral institutions, with
the UN as its centre, has been key.
 The centrality of the UN to South Africa’s
foreign engagement is in part based on
a strong belief in collective and equitable
global governance, but also because of
the organisation’s role in the fight against
apartheid.
 As early as June 1946, shortly after the
creation of the UN, the issue of South Africa’s
discrimination policies was proposed by India
as an agenda item in the Second Session of
Through the many decades leading up to 1994,
the UN took many important steps that assisted in
the international struggle against apartheid. The UN
became the arena where the morality and legality of
the system of apartheid was questioned.
South Africa has also consistently argued for reform of
the UNSC. Importantly, the historical injustice against
the African continent as reflected in the structure of the
UNSC should finally be corrected.the UN General Assembly (GA). This was
despite the fact that South Africa was one of
the founding members of the organisation.
South Africa adopted its apartheid policy
in 1948, yet remained a member until its
expulsion in 1974.
 In 1962, the UN Special Committee
on Apartheid was set up by the GA under
Resolution 1761 (XVll). The committee was
entrusted with the responsibility to monitor
and promote a comprehensive programme of
action against apartheid in South Africa.
 Through the many decades leading up
to 1994, the UN took many important steps
that assisted in the international struggle
against apartheid. The UN became the
arena where the morality and legality of
the system of apartheid was questioned .
In 1973, the UN declared apartheid a crime
against humanity with the adoption of the
International Convention on the Suppression
and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid by
the GA. This resulted in the suspension of
South Africa’s membership of the UN in 1947.
It was restored only in June 1994, after the first
democratic elections.
 It was, therefore, no great surprise that
with the advent of democracy in South Africa,
the new Government eagerly took on its new
international role, and enthusiastically carried
out its responsibilities as an active member of
the UN. We have sought to participate in all
the work of the UN, including by serving in its
principal organs.
 The principles that motivated our action
are still relevant today, namely:
•  a firm belief in multilateralism – especially
a global governance system that is fair,
equitable and representative
•  the promotion of peace and security
through global disarmament, the pacific
settlement of disputes and the promotion
of good governance
• the promotion of human rights
•  the fight against poverty through the
promotion of sustainable development.
Contemporary challenges such as the
COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, global
terror threats and the proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction require cooperation and
common will. The pandemic has reminded
us as to why multilateralism is so important.
We have seen that, as with these other
contemporary challenges, no country acting
alone can successfully deal with them. The
COVID-19 pandemic has claimed millions of
lives around the globe, deepened poverty and
widened the inequality gap across nations. It
has set back progress on the achievement of
the African continent’s Agenda 2063 and the
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
 As our focus shifts towards rebuilding and
recovery from the pandemic, we cannot afford
to retreat towards advancing our own narrow
national interests. This is especially so when
it came to the acquisition and distribution
of vaccines or rebuilding our economies.
Instead, more than ever, we need to work
together, within the framework of multilateral
organisations such as the UN, to ensure that
we build what the UN Secretary-General has
termed in his report, launched recently,  “A
Common Agenda”.
 In September 2021, world leaders
converged in New York, either in-person or
virtually, for the opening and General Debate
of the 76th Session of UNGA. The theme for
the session, chosen by the incoming President
of the GA,  Abdulla Shahid of the Maldives,
was: “Building Resilience through Hope – To
Recover from COVID-19, Rebuild Sustainably,
Respond to the Needs of the Planet, Respect
the Rights of People, and Revitalise the United
Nations”.
 The General Debate provided member
states with an opportunity to reflect on
rebuilding post the pandemic. The high-
level meetings specifically focussed on key
development priorities aimed at the attainment
of the SDGs. In addition to the pandemic,
there was, among others, an opportunity
to reflect on the global Food Systems and
Climate Change. For South Africa, a key
meeting was to mark the 20th  anniversary of
the adoption of the Durban Declaration and
Programme of Action (DDPA) at the World
Conference against Racism, held in Durban,
South Africa, in 2001. The DDPA remains
the international community’s blueprint for
action to fight racism both historically and
in the present. The holding of this event, the
modalities of which were co-facilitated by
South Africa and Portugal, provided us with
an opportunity to renew our commitment
to combatting racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance.
 The UN remains the hope for billions
around the globe to achieve peace, security
and development. For this to be realised, the
UN needs to remain relevant and address
these contemporary challenges. Additionally,
the UN needs to reform to remain credible.
South Africa views the UNGA as the world’s
chief deliberative, policy- and decision-making
body in the international system. Thus, South
Africa has consistently called for and worked
towards the strengthening of the assembly to
ensure that it remains relevant and responsive
to the needs of the world’s population.
 I extend the sincere thanks of the
Government and peoples of South Africa to the
UN and its member states for the invaluable
contribution they made in assisting to bring
democracy to our country. South Africa’s
success belongs as much to us as it does to
the nations of the world. Together, we have
a special responsibility to carry forward the
vision and the mandate of the UN, for future
generations. For South Africa, a strong and
effective UN remains central to our vision of
securing a better quality of life for all.
 South Africa has been privileged to
serve in the UN Security Council (SC) as a
non-permanent member. We have actively
promoted adherence to the mandated role
of the UNSC and have resisted attempts
to convert it into a body that advances the
interests of the more powerful permanent
members. Our key focus has been promoting
support for human rights, freedom for those
who suffer oppression and implementation of
the UN’s SDGs.
 South Africa has also consistently argued
for reform of the UNSC. Importantly, the
historical injustice against the African
continent as reflected in the structure of the
UNSC should finally be corrected.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
20
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  21
LET US BE THE ARCHITECTS OF OUR COMMON FUTUREDiPLomacy |
Let us be the architects of
our common future
T
he first Africa-Caribbean
Community (CARICOM)
Summit of Heads of State
and Government was held on
7 September 2021.
 This initiative placed us on
the threshold of a new epoch of integration,
unity and cooperation.
 It called to mind the words of Kenya’s
founding father, Jomo Kenyatta, who said:
“Our children may learn about the heroes of the
past. Our task is to make ourselves architects
of the future”.
 This summit presented a reimagining of the
future of relations between our peoples, who,
LET US BE THE ARCHITECTS OF OUR COMMON FUTURE
This summit presented a reimagining of the future of relations between our peoples,
who, although separated by a vast ocean, are united by a shared history.
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
Our common heritage should encourage us to
deepen our engagement, strengthen trade and
investment, collaborate in research and development,
and share expertise and knowledge among our
countries.
although separated by a vast ocean, are united
by a shared history.
 The summit took place in the first year of
the Decade of African Roots and Diaspora,
which was declared in February 2021 at the
34th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the
African Union (AU).
 The Diaspora is an integral part of the story
of Africa, the progress of Africa and indeed, the
future of Africa.
 Greater cooperation between the countries
of our continent and the Caribbean community
was espoused by our forebears who convened
the Fifth Pan-African Congress in Manchester
in 1945.
It was there that leaders like Jomo Kenyatta
and Kwame Nkrumah planted the seed that
would become the Organisation of African
Unity in 1963.
 In this sense, we are fulfilling an important
aspiration of the pioneers of Pan-Africanism,
and, within a contemporary context, of the AU’s
Agenda 2063.
 Our common heritage should encourage
us to deepen our engagement, strengthen
trade and investment, collaborate in research
and development and share expertise and
knowledge among our countries.
 Just as we share a common history, we
also have common challenges.
We are all contending with the devastating
human, social, political and economic effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 We are all working to overcome the effects
of colonialism and underdevelopment by
building inclusive economies and creating
more opportunities for our people.
 We are all vulnerable to the effects of
climate change through rising sea levels,
adverse weather effects and social and
economic disruption.
This pandemic has demonstrated the value
and the necessity of confronting challenges
together.
 From the onset of the pandemic, we
developed a united African continental
response strategy, established a special
COVID-19 Response Fund and launched
the groundbreaking African Medical Supplies
Platform to enable countries to access vital
medical supplies.
 We share a determination that when it
comes to vaccines and other critical health
interventions, no region, no country and no
person should be left behind.
 It is therefore a matter of great significance
that Caribbean countries have joined in the
efforts galvanised by the AU on acquiring
vaccines.
 Just as we have worked together to access
vaccine doses for our people, we need to
share experiences, expertise and technology
to better respond to COVID-19 and future
pandemics.
 We must mobilise the global community
behind the call for a temporary waiver of
the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects
of Intellectual Property Rights at the World
Trade Organisation, and continue to lobby
for partnerships on licensing and technology
transfer with those countries that have the
capacity to produce their own vaccines.
 The pandemic has shown what is possible
when principled solidarity is put to the service
of the common good.
 Let us draw on this solidarity as we rebuild
our economies.
 Let us, in particular, explore the
opportunities that are presented by the African
Continental Free Trade Area to advance our
aspirations towards economic integration and
shared prosperity.
 Through this partnership, let us work to
transform the fortunes of all the people of
Africa and all the people of African descent.
 Through our actions, let us be the architects
of our common future, where Africa and the
Caribbean are joined together by the common
goal of the prosperity of our people.
The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) is a grouping of 20 countries: 15 member states and five associate members. It is home to approximately
16 million citizens, 60% of whom are under the age of 30, and from the main ethnic groups of indigenous peoples: Africans, Indians, Europeans,
Chinese, Portuguese and Javanese. The community is multilingual, with English as the major language, complemented by French and Dutch and
variations of these, as well as African and Asian expressions.
 While these states are all relatively small, both in terms of population and size, there is also great diversity with regard to geography and
population as well as the levels of economic and social development.
 CARICOM came into being on 4 July 1973 with the signing of the Treaty of Chaguaramas by prime ministers Errol Barrow for Barbados, Forbes
Burnham for Guyana, Michael Manley for Jamaica and Eric Williams for Trinidad and Tobago. The treaty was revised in 2002 to allow for the
eventual establishment of a single market and a single economy.
i

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
22
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  23
Reflections on youth
and racism 20 years later
The 2001 Durban Conference represented not only the cumulative effect of the global
struggles against all forms of racism and to prohibit racism and racist practices, but it also
underscored the prevailing optimistic mood at the time of the conference worldwide.
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
T
wenty years ago, the world
converged in Durban, South
Africa, with the resolve to tackle
the scourge of racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance. When we
commemorate the 20th anniversary of the
World Conference Against Racism (WCAR),
we do not only want to remind ourselves
of the existence of the scourge of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance, but to recommit ourselves, as
individuals, members of our communities,
nations and as children of our common human
heritage, to redouble our efforts and rid our
world of this scourge.
 It is in this context that South Africa
appreciates the decision of the United Nations
(UN) General Assembly to mark, in a special
way, and at heads-of-state level, the 20th
commemoration of the Durban WCAR on
the margins of the UN General Assembly in
September this year.
 In South Africa, the 20th commemoration
of the Durban WCAR coincides with two
important events, namely, the commemoration
of the 45th anniversary of the 1976 Soweto
Youth Uprising and the celebration of 25 years
of the adoption of our Constitution. The events
of 1976 clearly demonstrated the resolve by
the young people of our country to take their
destiny into their own hands and fight any
stereotypes and prejudices, such as racism,
that stood in their way. The sacrifices of those
young people, especially those who paid with
their lives, should not be in vain. Their courage
and determination to fight for and build a
society and world that would be free of racism,
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related
intolerance should inspire, not only young
people, but all of us to march forward knowing
that we can win.
 When we adopted our Constitution 25 years
ago, we committed ourselves, among other
objectives, to: “Heal the divisions of the past
and establish a society based on democratic
values, social justice and fundamental rights”.
We also committed ourselves to build a South
Africa founded on values such as “human
dignity, the achievement of equality and the
advancement of rights and freedoms” as well
as “non-racialism and non-sexism”.
 The defiant spirit of the young generation
of 1976 to free themselves from the shackles
of apartheid, racism and racial discrimination,
and our collective desire to build a society
based on respect for human dignity,
achievement of equality and advancement
of rights and freedoms continue to inform our
approach, as a country, in the fight against
the continuing manifestations of racism and
related intolerance in our world.
 We shall work with our partners, young
people, civil society and all people of
goodwill throughout the world to realise these
objectives; precisely because peaceful nations
free of racism in all its manifestations will
produce a peaceful world free of racism in all
its manifestations.
 The 2001 Durban Conference represented
not only the cumulative effect of the global
struggles against all forms of racism and to
prohibit racism and racist practices, but it also
underscored the prevailing optimistic mood at
the time of the conference worldwide.
 In 2001, the world was still celebrating the
triumph of the human spirit over the racism and
racial discrimination of apartheid. The victory
of the anti-apartheid movement, which was
supported by the entire community of nations,
demonstrated to us all what could be achieved
against the scourge of racism when the family
of nations united in its determination to say “no
to racism!” in Durban. Many believed, correctly
so, that there was a need to draw a solid line in
the sand between civility and barbarism.
This optimism and belief in the inherent
potential of humanity to triumph over evil are
echoed in the “Mandela-Robinson pledge”,
which was one of the important messages
that delegates at the Durban Conference
embraced. In that pledge, the late President
Nelson Mandela and Mary Robinson, former
High Commissioner for Human Rights,
challenged delegates when they said:
 “As a new century begins, we believe
each society needs to ask itself certain
questions. Is it sufficiently inclusive? Is it non-
discriminatory? Are its norms of behaviour
based on the principles enshrined in the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights?”
 Further, the pledge expressed the strong
desire that:
 “Over the coming year, we pledge
ourselves to seek that conversion of mind
and heart. What we envisage for every man,
woman and child is a life where the exercise of
individual gifts and personal rights is affirmed
by the dynamic solidarity of our membership
of the one human family.”
 The Durban WCAR adopted a wide-
ranging political declaration and an extensive
programme of action to nudge states and non-
state actors to not only note the decisions,
but to join the efforts to combat racism and
related intolerance.
 In this context, the conference affirmed
the important role that young people, the
future generation, should play in realising
the goals and objectives of the Durban
Declaration and Programme of Action
(DDPA). The pledge urged states:
 “… to encourage the full and active
participation of, as well as involve more
closely, youth in the elaboration, planning
and implementation of activities to fight
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and related intolerance, and calls upon
States, in partnership with non-governmental
organizations and other sectors of society, to
facilitate both national and international youth
dialogue on racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance, through
the World Youth Forum of the United
Nations system and through the use of new
technologies, exchanges and other means.”
 The call, 20 years ago, by Nelson Man-
dela and Mary Robinson for the “conversion
of mind and heart” to achieve inclusive and
non-racist societies was forward-looking. In
that regard, young people become the criti-
cal section of society in the quest to rebuild
new communities that will embrace and live
by the spirit, norms, values and principles
contained in the Mandela-Robinson pledge
and the DDPA.
 On 30 July 2021, an event, held to reflect
on racism and youth 20 years later, forced
us to self-examine the progress or lack
thereof in relation to what we have done
to create the kind of conditions for young
people in our country and the world and to
determine whether the future generation will
enjoy the society envisaged by Mandela and
Robinson.
 In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic,
young people are some of the hardest-
hit members of our societies. Many young
people have lost their jobs, as most of them
occupy less-secure casual jobs; some have
lost parents, guardians, bread-winners,
care-givers and mentors and have suffered
“psychologically” due to the pandemic.
 The future appears bleak.
 But we cannot lose hope!
As members of the world community, we need to recommit ourselves to the goals
and objectives we inscribed in the DDPA. A world free of racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance is and will be a peaceful world. We must all join
hands to achieve that world.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
24
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  25
i
On 30 July 2021, the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, hosted a webinar on “Durban+20: Reflections on
Youth and Racism 20 Years Later’’ with the objective of commemorating 20 years since the World Conference Against Racism (WCAR), Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance (Durban+20).
 The WCAR was held from 31 August 2001 to 8 September 2001 in Durban, South Africa, under the theme  “United to Combat Racism: Equality,
Justice, Dignity”. This is commonly referred to as the Durban Conference.
 Adopted by consensus at the 2001 WCAR, the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action (DDPA) is a comprehensive, action-oriented
document that proposes concrete measures to combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. It is holistic in its vision,
addresses a wide range of issues and contains far-reaching recommendations and practical measures.
 The webinar reflected on the contemporary challenges facing young people nationally and globally, but most importantly, on how young people
can be agents of change against the backdrop of the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the WCAR and the DDPA as well as the 45th
anniversary of the 1976 Soweto Youth Uprising against the racist apartheid system.
 Minister Pandor led the panel discussion consisting of  Fatima Chohan, Deputy Chairperson of the South Africa Human Rights Commission;
Malaika Mahlatsi, youth activist; Abigail Noko, Head of the Regional Office of the United Nations (UN) High Commissioner for Human Rights;
and Professor Adekeye Adebayo of the University of Johannesburg. Also on the panel with video messages were Tendayi Achiume, the Special
Rapporteur on Contemporary Forms of Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance; and Michelle Bachelet, former
President of Chile and currently the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
 The panellists took stock of the achievements and challenges arising from the adoption of the DDPA in 2001, and its review in 2009. In general,
panellists expressed the view that the DDPA had a significant impact but also cautioned that much still needed to be done, especially for the young
people.
Young people can and must be agents of
change.
 Young people can and must be in the forefront
in the fight against racism, poverty, ignorance,
marginalisation, exclusion and disease.
 And as governments, we should create
conditions that will allow young people to real-
ise their basic giftedness; to utilise their poten-
tial; to harness their energies; to release their
creativity; to dream the seemingly impossible;
and to succeed big.
 As members of the world community,
we need to recommit ourselves to the goals
and objectives we inscribed in the DDPA.
A world free of racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance is and will
be a peaceful world. We must all join hands
to achieve that world. We should not allow
ourselves to be destructed by petty differences,
accusations and arguments and thereby win
insignificant battles and lose the important
war against racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance.
 We all need to #FightRacism
REFLECTIONS  ON YOUTH AND RACISM 20 YEARS LATER
Invest Cape Town works with international and local entrepreneurs, SMEs and multinationals that wish
to set up a business in Cape Town. We assist with investment facilitation, cut red tape,
and help access investment incentives and development facilitation.
On the ground, we collaborate with partners from business formations, investment
promotion agencies and sector support entities, and all spheres of government.
INVEST IN AFRICA’S HIGH-PERFORMANCE BUSINESS HUB
THAT SUPPORTS BIG IDEAS AND INNOVATION
@InvestCapeTownwww.investcapetown.com info@investcapetown.com +27 21 417 4043
A green tech
industry with
opportunities in
wind, solar PV,
smart meters,
batteries, waste,
water tech, gas
and chemicals
value chains.
Best city in South
Africa in getting
electricity to
investors and
granting
construction
permits - World
Bank Ease of
Doing Business
2018.
The tech hub of
Africa with the
most tech
start-ups of any
city on the
continent.  Home
to Amazon, DHL
and Naspers.
World-class
infrastructure,
sound
governance, and
four top African
universities
providing
a skilled
workforce.
Since 2015,
13 new flight
routes and 18
existing routes
expanded to the
rest of Africa, Asia
and Europe.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
26
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  27
South Africa, along with many in the UN membership, has long accepted and supported
a two-state solution, with Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace. Decades of
aggression have made this internationally recognised concept improbable.
We stand with the people of Palestine
O
n behalf of the South African
Government, I recently
had to communicate our
objection to the unjust
and unwarranted decision
of the African Union
Commission (AUC) to grant Israel observer
status in the AU.
 The AUC has taken this decision unilaterally
without consultations with its member states.
The decision to grant Israel observer status
is even more shocking in a year in which
the oppressed people of Palestine were
hounded by destructive bombardments and
continued illegal settlements of their land.
The AU strenuously objected to the deaths
of Palestinians and the destruction of civilian
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
infrastructure. The decision by the AUC in this
context is inexplicable.
 The unjust actions committed by Israel
offend the letter and spirit of the Charter of
the AU. The AU embodies the aspirations
of all Africans and reflects their confidence
that it can lead the continent through the
practical expression of the goals of the
charter, especially on issues relating to self-
determination and decolonisation.
 Israel continues to illegally occupy Palestine
in complete defiance of its international
obligations and relevant United Nations (UN)
resolutions.
 The world continues to witness some
of the most horrific scenes of brutality and
violence exercised against Palestinians living
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory. We have
witnessed the senseless taking of young,
innocent lives, the destruction of civilian
infrastructure and livelihoods in an “unbalanced
power equation between an occupying power
and a people, resisting occupation”.
 The Palestinian narrative evokes
experiences of South Africa’s own history
of racial segregation and oppression. As
oppressed South Africans, we experienced
first-hand the effects of racial inequality and
discrimination and we are well aware of the
long-term impact and consequences of racial
and other forms of discrimination.
 An unwavering commitment is required
to eradicate discrimination and policies of
exclusion completely and permanently the
WE STAND WITH THE PEOPLE OF PALESTINEDiPLomacy |
The Palestinian narrative evokes experiences of
South Africa’s own history of racial segregation and
oppression. As oppressed South Africans, we
experienced first-hand the effects of racial inequality
and discrimination and we are well aware of the long-
term impact and consequences of racial and other
forms of discrimination.
world over. It is paramount that the global
system deepens its efforts to eradicate the
scourge of racism and discrimination and allow
those whose basic rights have been violated,
to enjoy the inherent human rights that others
enjoy on a daily basis.
 The fundamental freedoms that many
of us take for granted remain absent for
Palestinians living in the Occupied Territory.
A report published by the Israeli Information
Centre for Human Rights in the Occupied
Territories, B’Tselem, provides a detailed
account of the military occupation imposed
on the approximately five million Palestinians
living in the Occupied Territory, and the laws
and practices engineered to impede them
from participating in the political system that
governs their lives and determines their future.
The Human Rights Watch Report, A Threshold
Crossed: Israeli Authorities and the Crimes
of Apartheid and Persecution, published on
27 April 2021, draws similar conclusions. The
regular land dispossession and illegal seizure
of homes evoke apartheid-forced removals
and intolerable harm to all people.
These actions undermine the Palestinian
people and deprive them of their universal
and inalienable right to self-determination
and equality. It goes against internationally
adopted human rights instruments and violates
international law, further provoking political
tension and endangering international peace
and security.
 Since its inception in 1945, the UN
has championed the principles of equality,
non-discrimination and the right to self-
determination as an integral element of basic
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
 With international human rights instruments
to guide us such as the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights; the Covenants on Civil and
Political Rights and Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights; as well as the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples (1960), we ask, why is
it that, over half a century later, the question of
Palestine remains unresolved and why is it that
the people of Palestine are denied many of the
rights contained in these seminal documents?
 South Africa, along with many in the
UN membership, has long accepted and
supported a two-state solution, with Israel and
Palestine living side by side in peace. Decades
of aggression have made this internationally
recognised concept improbable.
 The pivotal role played by the UN and
civil society in supporting our respective
liberation struggles and the impact this had
in us achieving our self-determination must
encourage the UN and its member states, the
international community and civil society to join
efforts to strengthen international action and
coordination to uphold international norms and
standards as we seek justice for Palestinians.
 Most importantly, with regard to the
ongoing human rights violations Palestinians
endure, South Africa urges the international
community, and in particular the UN, to ensure
the safeguarding of the rights of the Palestinian
people. In this regard, we welcomed the
initiative to convene the Special Session
of the Human Rights Council (HRC) on the
grave human rights situation in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
which was held on 27 May 2021.
South Africa supports the recent adoption of
the UN HRC Resolution, which establishes
an International Commission of Inquiry
to Investigate Violations in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
and in Israel. However, action in this regard
must be peremptory to avoid reducing these
initiatives to “feel-good talk shops”.
 We are currently living in unprecedented
times. The COVID-19 pandemic has
presented enormous social and economic
challenges, straining existing systems that are
already grappling with numerous difficulties.
The pandemic has further exacerbated the
challenges faced by civilians and vulnerable
groups, especially women, girls, people with
disabilities and children, including those in the
Occupied Territory. Containment measures
have affected access to socio-economic
necessities. Women and girls living under
occupation and in armed conflicts are often
subjected to not only social, economic and
political subjugation but are also at particular
risk of suffering from lifelong psychological
traumas. In this regard, it is paramount that
the occupying power fulfil its obligations in
terms of international law and together with the
international community ensure that all barriers
to accessing healthcare are eliminated in order
to save lives.
 The illegal settlements leading to
dispossession and displacements and
human rights abuses are incompatible with
international humanitarian law and international
human rights law. The policies and practices
of Israel, as the occupying power, are in
flagrant violation of UN General Assembly and
Security Council resolutions and contravene
international law.
 It is therefore imperative that the Security
Council, as the body entrusted to maintain
international peace and security, take concrete
steps against these illegal acts and go beyond
mere rhetoric condemnation. The recorded
failures of the Security Council in ensuring
respect for and the upholding of the rule of law
has dented the integrity of this august organ
and highlighted the urgent need for Security
Council reform.
WE STAND WITH THE PEOPLE OF PALESTINE

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
28
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  29
HONOURING THE SPIRIT OF CHARLOTTE MAXEKE
Honouring the sprit of
Charlotte Maxeke
“This work is not for yourselves, kill that spirit of self, and do not live above your people
but live with them and if you can rise, bring someone with you.”
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
O
n 23 August 2021,
the Department of
International Relations
and Cooperation
(DIRCO) launched the
Charlotte Maxeke African
Women’s Economic Justice and Rights
(AWERJ) Initiative. The commemoration of
this year’s Women’s Month took place against
the backdrop of the celebrations of 150 years
since the birth of Charlotte Mannya-Maxeke.
Government has declared 2021 as the Year of
Charlotte Maxeke.
 As we paid tribute to the women’s
generation of 1956 who marched to the Union
Buildings, we also paid tribute to the pioneers
of the women’s movement in South Africa
dating back to the 1913 women’s march when
Charlotte Maxeke led a march in Bloemfontein
against the early introduction of passes.
In paying tribute to the work of Charlotte Mannya-
Maxeke, DIRCO has developed an organic legacy
initiative that will be an embodiment of her values and
leadership qualities. This initiative will be anchored on
South Africa’s foreign policy, which is primarily Pan-
Africanist in form and internationalist in content, titled,
the Charlotte Maxeke AWERJ Initiative.
This year, we observed Women’s Month under
the theme: “The Year of Charlotte Mannya-
Maxeke: Realising Women’s Equality”. This
theme underscored the constant struggle
for the attainment and protection of women’s
rights during a time when the country battles
with the devastating COVID-19 global
pandemic.
 Mme Charlotte Mannya-Maxeke lived
in a different South Africa from the one we
live in today. In fact, it was not until 50 years
following her death that the winds of change
swept across her native land, ushering in a
democratic process that would realise the
rights she advocated for.
 We celebrate Charlotte Mannya-Maxeke
as a trailblazer and a torchbearer in various
sectors of society. We celebrate her as:
•  An artist and performer: We recognise her
role as a member of the African Jubilee
Choir that performed both on domestic and
international platforms in Europe, Canada
and the United States of America (USA)
at the turn of the 19th century. During the
choir’s tour to Europe, Maxeke also per-
formed solo for Queen Victoria.
•  Internationalist: She travelled to at least two
continents when travelling was not as easy
as it is today. This gave her unparalleled
exposure to other cultures and a broader
view of the world beyond the limitations of
South Africa. We recognise her as an early
proponent of people-to-people mechanisms
in the context of the conduct of international
relations and cooperation in today’s world.
Throughout the choir’s tour, she exchanged
ideas with her contemporaries, shared
information, used art to bring South Africa to
the world and used other aspects of culture
in order to foster mutual understanding
between her and her audiences. She also
worked with suffragists both in Europe
and the USA during the choir’s travels.
Upon her return home, she participated
in a number of international conferences
where she highlighted the plight of African
women. She advocated for cooperation
and understanding between the people of
South Africa and friends she made through
the tour and her studies abroad. For
example, she used her relationship with
WEB Du Bois as one of her lecturers at the
Wilberforce University to continue to inform
the world about the conditions of Africans in
South Africa. This is documented in some
of her letters with this outstanding Pan-
Africanist.
•  An intellectual: She became a symbol of ac-
ademic excellence and one of the first wom-
en in southern Africa to acquire a Bachelor
of Science degree in 1901 from the pres-
tigious Wilberforce University, Ohio, USA.
•  A torchbearer in women’s leadership: She
was the only woman in the room at the
founding meeting of the South African Na-
tive National Congress, now the African Na-
tional Congress, at the Methodist Church in
Waaihoek in Bloemfontein on 8 January
1912. It was through a motivation of Alfred
Bitini Xuma that she was given observer
status at this meeting. The one thing that
is unimaginable is how she sat there qui-
etly when her participation was being dis-
cussed. The irony is that at the time of this
meeting, she was intellectually more ad-
vanced than most men in that room but her
gender was a barrier for her participation.
•  An advocate for women’s rights: Maxeke
was the leader of the first women’s march
of 1913, held in Bloemfontein, against the
extension of reference books to women.
She was a pioneer in one of the greatest
of human causes, working under extraor-
dinarily difficult circumstances to lead the
people, in the face of prejudice, not only
against her race, but against her gender.
Her courage and leadership allowed her to
transcend religious and cultural barriers.
•  A visionary: In 1918, she co-founded the
Bantu Women’s League and became
its first president, which not only fought
against pass laws but aroused public opin-
ion on another equally disgusting practice
of medical inspection of black women be-
fore entering domestic service. In today’s
world, we would define her as an activist of
sexual reproductive health and rights.
•  A teacher: She later taught at a primary and
secondary school she co-founded, called
Wilberforce Institute in Evaton, in the Vaal.
The institute is still in existence to this day.
•  A social worker: Her work as social worker
and native welfare officer can be argued
to be the best portrayal of her strength and
distinguished ability. Maxeke had, as in
most instances, seen the need and taken
the initiative to serve her people without
funds and for no pay. Her opinions and
recommendations were sought by the State
and, in many cases, she succeeded to get
suspended sentences for her cases where
lawyers often failed in the cases of their clients.
•  An economic empowerment agent: Max-
eke understood the intersectional identities
of women who faced multiple discrimina-
tion and imbued with the spirit of service,
her work included economic empowerment
whereby she set up an employment agen-
cy for Africans in Johannesburg. She also
worked with young people who were in con-
flict with the law.
•  Human rights activist: As a human rights
activist, not only did she help with reducing
sentences for juvenile delinquencies, she
also had the ability to gain insight into hu-
man life and conduct by assisting with their
rehabilitation and socio-economic needs.
While being the first black woman in the many
spaces she operated in, she understood that
for meaningful representation of women, she
needed to rally other women to amplify their
voice in the struggle for gender equality.
 Based on all of these factors, we had to find
a way to not only tell her story but to impart
knowledge and inspire generations of women
who will embody her values in a meaningful
way. We wanted to ensure that she multiplies.
 In paying tribute to the work of Charlotte
Mannya-Maxeke, DIRCO has developed
an organic legacy initiative that will be an
embodiment of her values and leadership
qualities. This initiative will be anchored on
South Africa’s foreign policy, which is primarily
Pan-Africanist in form and internationalist in
content, titled, the Charlotte Maxeke AWERJ
Initiative.
 The AWEJR Initiative is our contribution
to the global acceleration agenda for the
empowerment of women and girls. It is the
missing piece in our Women, Peace and
Security Agenda. Through this initiative, we
have come full circle in our efforts on the full
emancipation of women and girls.
 This initiative is a practical expression of our
diplomacy of Ubuntu and it aims to strengthen
South Africa’s international solidarity work. It
is an affirmation and a validation of women’s
economic justice rights as fundamental human
rights.
 South Africa recognises that while more
efforts have gone to civil and political rights
of women, the economic rights of women and
girls have been largely neglected. It is for this
reason that South Africa chose to focus its
efforts under the Generation Equality Forum
on Economic Justice and Rights.
 In July 2021, President Cyril Ramaphosa
joined other heads of states and organisations
at the Paris Forum to endorse the outcome
of the multi-stakeholder process, the Global
Acceleration Plan for the empowerment of
women and girls across the globe. Furthermore,

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
30
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  31
he outlined South Africa’s commitments for the
next five years, including the Charlotte Maxeke
AWEJR Initiative as one of the programmatic
commitments.
 Through the implementation of this initiative,
South Africa seeks to mobilise the global
community to support women’s leadership
across all the action coalitions, particularly
economic justice and rights, through education,
training and mentorship of women and youth
as well as creating opportunities in economic
participation, networking, diplomacy and
trade.
 The Charlotte Maxeke Initiative will launch
collaborative projects with targeted support
for women and girls to ensure that they have
increased opportunities in decision-making
across political and economic spheres.
  The Charlotte Maxeke AWEJR Initiative
has six concrete flagship programmes that will
be implemented gradually:
•  The Africa Future Leadership Development
Programme is aimed at inculcating
the values of Pan-Africanism, integrity
and selflessness through mentorship
and training opportunities for youth on
international policy and diplomacy work.
This programme will target young people
from all over the continent.
•  The African Women’s Leadership Award will
recognise and honour exceptional African
women leaders whose achievements,
mentorship, influence and contributions
have advanced Africa’s development in
various sectors of society.
•  The first-ever Minister’s breakfast with
women ambassadors on gender equality
initiatives created a platform for female
diplomats to share perspectives on the
gender agenda and explore available
opportunities to promote the empowerment
of women and girls in Africa.
•  The African Women’s Leadership Training
Programme on Economic Justice and
Rights will be exclusively tailored to enable
astute African women leaders opportunity to
apply leading-edge knowledge, experience
and insight on economic justice and rights.
It aims to provide a networking platform
for African women leaders to share best
practices and lessons from their experience
in the field.
•  The Women’s Trade Fair will showcase
African women’s products and services
to markets on the continent and globally.
Furthermore, it will also raise awareness
about the opportunities provided through
policy initiatives such as the African
Continental Free Trade Area.
HONOURING THE SPIRIT OF CHARLOTTE MAXEKE
•  To honour this exceptional educationalist,
DIRCO will seek partnership for the
annual Fellowship for African Women in
Diplomacy. This programme will provide
both degree and non-degree awarding
opportunities to the next generation of
African women in diplomacy. This is an
effort to impart and mold a female public
servant inspired by the values of Charlotte
Maxeke such as ethical leadership,
empathy and excellence.
The department, through the Office of the
COO, has been engaged in the consultative
process with many of our friends and partners
with whom we would like to take this initiative
forward. Nonetheless, it continues to be an
open invitation for all who see an opportunity
to contribute to the realisation of the economic
justice and rights of women and girls in Africa.
In the words of Charlotte Mannya-Maxeke:
“This work is not for yourselves, kill that spirit of
self, and do not live above your people but live
with them and if you can rise, bring someone
with you.”
We celebrate Charlotte
Mannya-Maxeke as
a trailblazer and a
torchbearer in various
sectors of society.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
32
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  33
BRICS UNITED IN ITS VISION
BRICS united in its vision
Joining the BRICS group of countries in 2010 was a milestone in our quest to advance
our own national development priorities by forging stronger ties with the important
emerging economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East
Department of International Relations and CooperationT
he preamble of our Constitution
instructs us not only to heal
the divisions of the past and
establish a society based
on democratic values, social
justice and fundamental human
rights, but also to build a united and democratic
South Africa able to take its rightful place as a
sovereign state in the family of nations.
 To this end, South Africa has forged
strategic alliances with both the countries
of the Global South and mutually beneficial
cooperation with the countries of the North.
 Joining the BRICS group of countries in
2010 was a milestone in our quest to advance
our own national development priorities by
forging stronger ties with the important emerging
economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
 But the history of BRICS is far longer
than its first meeting of foreign ministers in
2006, its first Leaders’ Summit in 2009 and
its expansion to include South Africa in 2010.
Indeed, it is a common history of struggle
The BRICS countries also continue to be important
sources of foreign direct investment in key sectors
such as mining, automotive, transportation, clean
energy, financial services and information technology.
These investments and projects have in turn led to
significant job creation.
against imperialism, colonialism, exploitation
and underdevelopment.
 It is a continuation of the Bandung
Conference, held in 1955, where Asian and
African powers proposed to develop economic
and cultural cooperation and demanded
increased representation for developing
countries in the United Nations (UN). In the
Bandung Assembly, our voice was heard,
and Moses Kotane spoke there for the real
aspirations of the South African people.
 BRICS continues this tradition of promoting
economic and cultural cooperation between
emerging and developing economies and
demanding an increased representation and
voice in today’s global governance institutions.
 Individually, all of us are strong in the world
and our opinions and views are sought on
matters of importance. However, we are not
all represented in a system that was set up in
1945.
 The five members of BRICS together make
up 42% of the world’s population, 30% of the
territory in the world and 23% of the global
economy. This so dramatically illustrates that
the current world order indeed does not reflect
our economic, political and social reality.
 BRICS continues to represent a powerful
coalition of countries that ensures the
centrality of multilateralism, which pronounces
itself unambiguously against unilateralism,
protectionism and populism. One of the
foundational values of BRICS is a shared vision
of the need to restructure the global political,
economic and financial architecture to be more
equitable, balanced, representative and resting
on the important pillars of multilateralism and
international law.
 President Cyril Ramaphosa participated in
the 13th
 BRICS Summit on 9 September 2021,
during which BRICS leaders endorsed a Joint
Statement on Strengthening and Reforming of
the Multilateral System adopted on 1 June 2021
by our foreign ministers. This standalone Joint
Statement of 28 paragraphs is by no means
a negligible accomplishment for the bloc.
The Joint Statement highlights key principles
of reform and calls for the strengthening
and reform of principal organs of the UN,
international peace and security architecture,
international financial architecture, trade and
development architecture and a global health
system.
 We are confident that we are building
momentum and slowly eroding resistance
to change. South Africa has benefitted from
being part of a collective BRICS voice striving
to advance a world order based on mutual
respect and the equal sovereignty of nations.
 The most difficult body to reform remains
the UN Security Council. For South Africa, it is
imperative that the Security Council be more
representative and inclusive, in line with the
principle of the sovereign equality of all states.
Beyond the question of reform, South Africa
approaches BRICS as a partnership where
leading countries of the world have an
opportunity to share their strengths and learn
from each other’s best practice.
 In South Africa, we refer to the triple
challenges of inequality, poverty and
unemployment. As government, we have
set in motion processes to respond to the
pandemic, grow our economy and expand
our infrastructure, among others. Other
BRICS member states are dealing with similar
challenges, albeit with their own unique
circumstances.
 South Africa has reaped the benefits of
membership of this important bloc, most
notably in the area of economic cooperation.
 Bilateral trade has grown, particularly with
China and India, with commodity exports and
manufactured goods imports featuring strongly.
With the inclusion of South Africa in BRICS, our
trade balance with most BRIC countries has
switched from deficit to surplus, and the value
of our exports to our BRIC partners now are
larger than to our other partners. South Africa’s
trade with our BRICS partners increased from
R268 billion in 2011 to R540 billion in 2020.
However, we still have work to do to reach our
target of US$500 billion intra-BRICS trade as it
stood at US$354 billion in 2019.
 The BRICS countries also continue to be
important sources of foreign direct investment
in key sectors such as mining, automotive,
transportation, clean energy, financial services
and information technology. These investments
and projects have in turn led to significant job
creation.
 Since the formation of the New Development
Bank (NDB), whose regional office is located
in Johannesburg, South Africa has been a
beneficiary of financing and technical support
for 10 projects in transportation, clean energy,
environmental protection, water infrastructure
and greenhouse gas emissions reduction,
to the value of approximately US$4.4 billion.
These projects are aimed at improving service
delivery in critical areas.
 Since the outbreak of the COVID-19
pandemic, South Africa has also received
US$2 billion in funding from the NDB under
the COVID-19 Emergency Loan Programme
to fight the pandemic and to support our
economic recovery.
 The 13th BRICS Summit welcomed the
expansion of membership of the bank to
include Bangladesh, Uruguay and the United
Arab Emirates. Negotiations with a potential
African member is at an advanced stage and
we look forward to an announcement in this
regard soon.
 During the 13th BRICS Summit, leaders
also agreed to deepen cooperation to fight
COVID-19 and mobilise the political support
and financial resources needed to respond to
future pandemic preparedness. This includes
the early operationalisation of a virtual BRICS
Vaccine Research and Development Centre
and a BRICS Integrated Early Warning System
to forecast future outbreaks of infectious
diseases.
 The building of vaccine development and
manufacturing capacity in South Africa is a
strategic priority to strengthen both health and
industrial capacity.
 If we are to save lives and end the pandemic,
we need to expand and diversify manufacturing
and get medical products to treat, combat and
prevent the pandemic to as many people as
quickly as possible. The proposed Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights waiver is a temporary, targeted and
proportional response, which recognises the
unprecedented nature of the pandemic. During
the 13th BRICS Summit, South Africa and India
called on all BRICS members to unequivocally
support the waiver and negotiations that will
result in a massive and rapid expansion of
production across the world.
 The concept of mutually beneficial
cooperation that characterises BRICS will be
particularly important in the global economic
recovery, where unequal development means
that some countries will bounce back quickly,
while others will lag behind.
 In support of economic recovery,
BRICS partners also agreed to strengthen
collaboration in catalytic sectors such as
energy, information technology, science,
technology and innovation, agriculture and
the green economy. These are all important
sectors identified in South Africa’s Economic
Reconstruction and Recovery Plan announced
last year.
 Cooperation with other BRICS countries,
particularly in the field of innovation
research, will help to accelerate our country’s
industrialisation and help us meet our Fourth
Industrial Revolution aspirations. In this regard,
BRICS countries have held discussions around
the creation of formal BRICS platforms to
share best practice, knowledge and expertise,
including the use of open source technology
platforms.
 Under the Chairship of India in 2021,
around 150 meetings will eventually be held
across all three pillars of our cooperation:
political and security, economic and financial,
and social/people-to-people. These include
meetings to address a more equitable and
representative international environment;
increased people-to-people relations across
our countries through art, film and cultural
exchanges; increased access to capital for
infrastructure and sustainable development;
enhanced research and innovation; recovery
of the tourism sector; investment and trade;
more opportunities for our businesspeople,
researchers and students; the empowerment
of women, girls and the youth; and increased
living standards of our people.
 South Africa is encouraged that the
members of BRICS continue to show a
commitment to addressing the issues that
face Africa and the developing world. South
Africa therefore continues to centre African
issues and interests on the BRICS agenda.
Our BRICS partners have demonstrated their
commitment to Africa’s own policy priorities,
particularly voicing their support for Africa’s
Agenda 2063.
 BRICS is also a platform for sharing
and learning and is open to new ideas and

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
34
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  35
BRICS UNITED IN ITS VISION BRICS UNITED IN ITS VISION
directions. A unique aspect of BRICS is the
establishment of the BRICS Think Tank
Council, BRICS Academic Forum and the
BRICS Civil Forum. These academic and civil-
society engagements independently assess
the programmes of BRICS cooperation,
conduct research in support of BRICS priorities
and make recommendations to the BRICS
leaders. Similarly, the BRICS Business Council
and the BRICS Women’s Business Alliance
are important drivers of commercial economic
networks and are therefore instrumental to
broader socio-economic recovery from the
COVID-19 pandemic. These engagements not
only provide well-researched policy guidance
to BRICS countries, but provide a unique
feedback mechanism to BRICS leaders about
the concrete impact of our cooperation on our
people.
One of the priorities of the Indian Chairship
in 2021 has been to strengthen people-to-
people cooperation. We need to spread the
BRICS story far and wide to further enhance
the mutual understanding and traditional
friendship among our peoples. For South
Africa, our participation in BRICS is aimed at
delivering concrete benefits to our people in
our communities and must therefore be owned
by the people. We want our own academia, our
own thinkers, our own civil society and our own
people-to-people contact to determine what
BRICS is going to be about in future. South
Africa is therefore aiming at greater people-to-
people connectivity and more popular support
for BRICS cooperation through extensive
exchanges in cultural, educational, health,
sports, tourism and other areas.
In the 11 years since South Africa joined
BRICS, our membership has substantially
advanced our national interest. Being a
member of BRICS has enhanced our position
as an important emerging economy. It has
given us access to policy and technical
expertise of larger and established economies,
as well as access to the support of the NDB.
It has strengthened our activism on the global
stage, particularly around reform of multilateral
institutions. We have benefitted from being
part of a collective voice striving to advance a
world order based on mutual respect and the
equal sovereignty of nations.
 As the President stated in his newsletter
of 13 September 2021, BRICS is of immense
strategic importance to our country and will
therefore continue to be so for some time to
come.
South Africa is encouraged that the members of BRICS continue to show a commitment
to addressing the issues that face Africa and the developing world. South Africa therefore
continues to centre African issues and interests on the BRICS agenda. Our BRICS
partners have demonstrated their commitment to Africa's own policy priorities, particularly
voicing their support for Africa's Agenda 2063.
Since its launch in 2013, South Africa’s first,
24-hour online radio station has been setting
in motion dialogue on South Africa’s foreign
policy.
In celebration of its first anniversary in 2014,
UbuntuRadio launched on DSTV’s audio
bouquet, increasing its reach to over 45
African countries and over 10 million potential
listeners. In addition to the mobile application
accessible globally, the UbuntuRadio Mxit
Application is also available to a potential 80
million users.

Follow the award winning station on Twitter
and listen live on www.ubunturadio.com.
SOUTH AFRICA’S
PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
IN ACTION
RADIO
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE ON SMARTPHONES
Ubuntu Radio Android App Ubuntu Radio BlackBerry App Ubuntu Radio Iphone/Ipad App
 Ubuntu Radio mxit App
@UbuntuRadioZA
UbuntuRadioZA
UbuntuRadioZA
STUDIO NUMBER +27 (0) 12 329 2239 www.ubunturadio.com
Listen Live

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
36
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  37
Wildebeest Kuil Rock Art Centre is a rock-engraving site with a visitor centre on land owned by the !Xun and Khwe San, situated about 16 km from
Kimberley, in the Northern Cape. It is a declared Provincial Heritage Site, managed by the Northern Cape Rock Art Trust in association with the
McGregor Museum.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
38
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  39
PEACE AND JUSTICE MUST CO-EXIST FOR BOTH TO THRIVE
PEACE AND JUSTICE MUST
CO-EXIST FOR BOTH TO THRIVE
N
elson Mandela, one of the
world’s greatest public
servants and civil rights
icons, continues to inspire
us all, as we tackle the
multifaceted challenges that
face humanity today.
 During apartheid, Mandela’s name became
a beacon of light in the struggle against
oppression and injustice. With courage on the
one hand, and tenacity on the other, he guided
South Africa through murky waters and wrote
his name on the sands of time as a symbol of
peace and reconciliation, resonating across
Africa and beyond.
 Years ago, as a young girl growing up in
The Gambia, a relative of mine who served as
the Principal Magistrate of the City of Banjul,
always spoke highly of Mandela and his vision
to uphold human rights.
 Many of us across the continent remember
hearing songs of praise about Nelson Mandela,
whether by Youssou N’dour in Senegal or
Ladysmith Black Mambazo in South Africa.
Despite being held captive far away on
Robben Island, Madiba’s voice and principles
echoed and guided us. He was present in our
conscience and daily lives; embedding in me an
innate strive for justice, especially in my early
I have always been of the view that peace and justice must work contemporaneously.
Prioritising one over the other jeopardises the chance of achieving either. As is often
cried on the frontlines, no justice, no peace.
By Dr Fatou Bensouda
Former International Criminal Court Chief Prosecutor
years as a human rights practitioner. The more
I learnt about Madiba, the more I learnt about
steadfastness and resolve. His dedication to
non-violence in spite of his circumstances,
remains an upright quality we must continue to
uphold in turbulent times, even in South Africa
today.
 The relationship between international
criminal justice, the rule of law and sustainable
development has attracted and continues to
engender interesting but, at times, very heated
and controversial debates. One of those being
the classic dilemma of pursuing peace versus
justice.
 During my career as Chief Prosecutor at
the International Criminal Court (ICC), while
investigating alleged commission of crimes in
areas of armed conflict, some negotiators often
believed the ICC’s intervention would impede
the peace process.
 I have always been of the view that peace
and justice must work contemporaneously.
Prioritising one over the other jeopardises the
chance of achieving either. As is often cried on
the frontlines, no justice, no peace.
 For this reason, I remind fellow human
rights practitioners how important it is for
communities to understand that the promise
of peace comes with justice and accountability.
I believe this package is a more sustainable
recipe for actualising Madiba’s vision of
transitional justice; whether through redress or
transformation of political and social systems.
We must continue to question how we approach
these processes to attain more sustainable and
progressive futures.
 We need to collectively examine these
probing questions:
•  to what extent does international criminal
justice and the rule of law contribute
towards sustainable development?
•  specifically, how can institutions such as
the ICC – whose principal object is to bring
to justice individuals responsible for crimes
of concern to the international community
– contribute to the multifaceted value of
peace and sustainable development?
Sustainable development meets the needs of
the present, without compromising the ability of
future generations to meet their own needs.
 It calls for concerted efforts towards building
an inclusive and resilient future for people and
our planet. To achieve sustainable development,
we must harness our social capital and efforts of
civil society on the ground, to build more robust
and responsive instruments of change.
PEACE AND JUSTICE MUST CO-EXIST FOR BOTH TO THRIVE
Goal 16 of the 2030 Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) identifies three key elements
namely: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.
The goal is to promote peaceful and inclusive
societies, provide access to justice for all,
and build effective, accountable and inclusive
institutions at all levels.
 At a glance, it is evident that conflict is an
ever-present process in human relations; with
peace being the desired antidote. As a proud
African, I want to see Africa as most Africans
do: a prosperous and more peaceful continent
in which democratic values, the rule of law and
human rights are respected and advanced.
 With over 3 000 ethnic groups and a
myriad of languages, Africa is among the most
heterogeneous regions in the world. However,
this seeming blessing has equally fuelled
past and ongoing conflicts, often fought along
ethnic and religious lines.
 It is important for governments – especially
democratic governments – to understand that
their primary duty is to safeguard the rights of
citizens – whether economic, political or social.
This is what tills fertile ground for inclusive and
sustainable development, rooted in values of
peace and unity. In principle, any government
unable to safeguard these rights has failed to
discharge its primary duty.
 When a government does not invest in
human development, namely healthcare,
education and standard of living, the people
despair.
 When a government does not adopt growth-
oriented policies, factoring in comprehensive
socio-economic challenges, the people
despair.
 When a government runs a sham
democracy and fails to take into account
the socio-political plight of vulnerable and
marginalised groups, the people despair.
 Despair is no ingredient for prosperity;
and without hope, we cannot actualise or
activate peace, especially among increasingly
globalised and rapidly developing societies in
Africa. When heads of state and leaders fail
to build solidarity, the people often fall back
on tribal or religious divisions, for example, as
a reactionary means of survival. In trying to
survive, a breakdown of law and order often
leads to the commission of egregious crimes
by both state and non-state actors. A leader
who fails to quell violence but rather fans
the flames of divisiveness, should be held
accountable.
 In such a case, where the parameters
of admissibility and complementarity are
satisfied, the ICC could intervene. The goal
outlined in the Rome Statute is to end impunity
and contribute towards lasting peace. Whether
through setting judicial precedent or deterring
future crimes, it is important to acknowledge
the role and responsibility of leaders in the
deprivation or realisation of peace.
 I dare to say that the level of greed and
impunity on the African continent strongly limits
our strive towards lasting peace. When leaders
sabotage their own countries, do they not
have future generations in mind? This short-
sightedness fails to anticipate the ripple effect
of their actions, not only on themselves but on
the people whom they took an oath to serve.
We must hold accountable the perpetrators
of neopatrimonial politics and gerontocratic
regimes with outdated imaginaries of the State.
 What might a new liberatory social contract
look like?
 To begin, we must confront ourselves
honestly, as we have, about the root causes
of this rampant social disorder. If we all yearn
for peace, are our leaders implementing steps
towards necessary radical reform? By this,
I don’t simply mean more steps, but different
steps. It is time to see solidarity in action,
effective dialogue, and response that puts
victims first; not politics first.
 Through his work and lived experience,
Madiba taught us that embracing our identity
should not come at the expense of humanity.
He galvanised a country divided along racial
lines under the umbrella of a “rainbow nation”.
Madiba dreamt of a nation where peace and
freedom formed the foundational basis of a
modern democracy. Towards the turn of the
century, he brought promising hope to Africa,
the African Diaspora and marginalised people
across the world.
 However, as we know, Rome was not built
in a day.
 Recent events in South Africa have shown
that there is urgent work to be done, to
build a more inclusive society. It is clear that
economic inequality and mistrust in public
institutions have fuelled a hostile response
among the people. The expanding wealth gap
is a clear pointer that we must work towards
a progressive economic model that levels the
playing field.
 We must work together to keep the Madiba
candle of hope burning in a time where
multilateralism, neo-apartheid and weak
pillars of accountability continue to impede
sustainable development. Despite the many
challenges, there is room for progress, to
reduce inequality, fight corruption and restore
trust.
 The legacy of apartheid is a vivid example
of the urgency for systemic change. However,
this reform must be sustainable, meaning all
parties must be served, including those in the
margins (the victims, the dispossessed, the
women and the children), and a propelled
spirit of resistance should bring foresight and
comprehensive policy-building.
 This also means lifting systematic and
institutional barriers, by providing equal
opportunity for all members of society –
including women in critical decision-making
– to thrive, reach their full potential and to
succeed. We have a collective responsibility to
advance gender parity in Africa and beyond.
 It has been a commitment of mine
to champion the rights of women and
children, and increasingly those of younger
generations. When the youth are disregarded,
both imminent and future progress is stifled.
This is a threat to future economies and the
sustainable development of our continent and
the world.
 A new liberatory social contract therefore,
would see a world where young people have
a seat at the table and speak boldly on issues,
which impact our collective futures.
 In a world where we must learn to coexist in
mutual respect despite our differences, we are
tasked with the responsibility not just to learn
but to unlearn; to break generational cycles as
a form of catharsis.
 Above all, we must continue to hold the
essence of peace and humanity as sacred in
this boundless and ever-changing world.
 A new social contract would require
convergence, solidarity and collaboration
between government, non-state actors and
civil society. This calls for not only more
institutions but better and stronger institutions:
ones not riddled in identity politics, but driven
by the rule of law.
 Turning to strong institutions.
 One thing I often say is: “The law is my
boss”. This motto reinforces the concept of “the
rule of law” in my experience as a justice and
human rights practitioner.
 In many parts of the world, bureaucracy
has brewed a culture of adopting legislation
without implementation. Oftentimes, the
concepts underpinning these laws (such as
peace and justice) seem abstract, clichéd and
detached from the desperate daily needs of the
masses. The power of strong institutions lies
in their ability to activate these concepts from
theory into practice, through swift and efficient
systems.
 In my line of work, I have witnessed the
ramifications of lack of rapid response to victims,
and the trauma it brews over generations. Within
this process lies the paradox and nuances,
which institutions like the ICC are tasked with
dissecting and resolving.
 As captured in SDG 16, people around
the world need to have faith in the institutions
responsible for ensuring justice. Strengthening
institutions, with a commitment to ensuring

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
40
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  41
PEACE AND JUSTICE MUST CO-EXIST FOR BOTH TO THRIVE
their independence, impartiality and ability to
achieve set mandates, must be the driving
force and rationale behind coordinated policies
at both domestic and international levels.
 The ICC is the world’s first permanent
criminal court holding accountable those
responsible for the commission of crimes
of concern to the international community –
including genocide, war crimes, crimes against
humanity and the crime of aggression. Over
the last two decades, it has developed a body
of knowledge that addresses these questions
through various opinions and jurisprudence.
 The Rome Statute criminalises and seeks
accountability for conducts, which strike the
very heart of our societies. These include not
only violent crimes against protected groups
and persons, but also crimes against cultural
property and emerging frontiers yet to be
captured by the Rome Statute system.
 While examining the relationship between
international criminal justice and the
broader challenges of attaining sustainable
development, it is important to stress that
the independent mandate of the Court and
its Office of the Prosecutor must always be
respected and protected. This institution,
seeking justice for victims, should be shielded
from political interference, resource paucity
and any other internal risks, which may
threaten its effectiveness and efficiency. Some
of these issues are currently being addressed
by the ongoing review of the Court.
 I strongly believe that intervention by an
independent and impartial Court – as the
anchor of the international criminal justice
system – plays a critical role in contributing,
even if indirectly, towards peace, reconciliation
and reconstruction of societies recovering from
the ravages of war and conflict.
 This intervention not only supports
accountability and justice efforts, but in the
long run contributes to the construction of
judicial and other rule of law institutions within
national legal systems – all of which are critical
to facilitating sustainable development.
 Some may argue that there are no positive
linkages between international criminal justice
and peacebuilding. A proponent of this school
of thought, Hideaki Shinoda, notes that:
 “[E]xcessive pursuit of justice in an unstable
society risks undermining opportunities of
peace.”
 In opposing the signing of the Rome Statute
by then President Bill Clinton of the United
States, one commentator specifically argued
that:
 “[The ICC is] the wrong instrument for
dealing with large-scale war, devastation,
destruction and crimes against humanity […].
Developing stable democratic societies and
limiting the loss of life require prudent political
calculations, not judicial findings. Judgments
about individual guilt can point in one direction,
and judgments about political order and the
promotion of peace and democracy can point
in another.”
 As the ICC engaged in its first situation in
Uganda, some vehemently criticised the Court
for allegedly impeding the peace processes
in northern Uganda by its issuance of arrest
warrants against the key perpetrators of crimes
in the region.
 The criticism and fears surrounding the
ICC were aggravated by the fact that the
alleged perpetrators had refused to sign the
peace agreement, to benefit from “amnesty” in
Uganda as long as the warrants of arrest were
still in place.
 These views were and still remain
contradictory to the soul of the Rome
Statute. The adoption of the Rome Statute
demonstrates the clear determination of
the international community to put an end to
impunity for perpetrators of atrocity crimes that
threaten the peace, security and well-being
of the world, and, by doing so, aid in their
prevention. Let me recall here the immortal
words of Kofi Annan. He said:
 “We have little hope of preventing genocide,
or reassuring those who live in fear of its
occurrence, if people who have committed
this most heinous of crimes are left at large,
and not held to account. It is therefore vital that
we build and maintain robust judicial systems,
both national and international – so that, over
time, people will see there is no impunity for
such crimes.”
 If we flip through the pages of history, we
are constantly reminded that there can be no
healing without peace; there can be no peace
without justice; and there can be no justice
without the rule of law. In commemoration
of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, the United
Nations General Assembly underscored the
importance of justice and accountability in the
following words:
 “Exposing and holding perpetrators,
including their accomplices, accountable, as
well as restoring dignity of victims through
acknowledging and commemorating their
suffering would guide societies in the
prevention of future violations.”
 It is therefore important for policymakers,
legal practitioners and all relevant parties
to continue exploring innovative ways to
strengthen national institutions, including
through international cooperation, building
capacity with the weapons of the law.
 There is a need to improve how we
approach our pursuit of justice in a concerted
effort to build solidarity. When we build on
lessons learnt and best practices, it sets the
stage for innovative and sustainable solutions
to the types of challenges we have illustrated
today.
 As you know, the effects of war have intra-
and intergenerational repercussions. But how
can the long arm of strong institutions avert
and mitigate some of the consequences?
 When considering the rights of future
generations – those that include the long-term
protection of humanity through robust and
sustainable mechanisms – we must adopt a
new precautionary principle, evolving from
punitive law, which punishes after the fact, to
anticipatory law, aimed at prevention.
 Globally, the number of people fleeing war,
persecution and conflict currently exceeds
70 million. To combat this comprehensively,
new systems must involve diverse factions of
society, including across borders. At the core,
lies the safeguarding of future generations, the
young torchbearers of our tomorrow.
 According to the United Nations Children’s
Fund, about 33 million children have been
forcibly displaced worldwide by violence and
conflict, with an estimated 19.4 million of them
within their own countries. Furthermore, crimes
against children, involving the use of child
soldiers for example, call for urgent action at all
levels.
 It is estimated that by 2050, Africa will have
the greatest potential among all continents
in respect of its young and dynamic labour
force. Protecting and cultivating this enormous
potential must be a strategic imperative for
African countries.
 In a world where our struggles are
increasingly interconnected and the value
of pre-emptive measures is evident, we
must engage all critical actors: governments
and their institutions, international, non-
governmental organisations and civil society.
 It would be nothing short of an illusion to
think that we can rely exclusively on states to
uphold respect for human rights and the rule
of law. When governments fail, active citizens
moving in solidarity, even across borders, build
new orders that propel the vision of a more just
world.
 While I served as Chief Prosecutor, my
office held biannual meetings with members
of civil-society organisations committed to
holding individuals to account for international
crimes. This enabled collaboration with
external partners for practical pursuit of our
mandate.
 On the other hand, delays in implementation
of the reparations mandate of the Trust Fund
for Victims, and lack of cooperation from
situation countries, call for greater creativity
in addressing challenges that fail to harness a
collective and sustainable approach.
PEACE AND JUSTICE MUST CO-EXIST FOR BOTH TO THRIVE
The emergence of new actors has led to
the expansion of frontiers in the field of
international law at its intersection with
climate justice, data privacy, cybersecurity,
and business and human rights, among
other fields. These increasingly sophisticated
systems reshape and reform the ways in which
we strategise and fundamentally understand
our interconnectedness.
 I recently met with a few young people who
asked me the question: “Are you scared for the
future of international criminal justice, given the
current trajectory?” My response was simple:
there is nothing to be scared about, as I believe
in the collective power of those championing
the global and constant fight against injustice.
 Despite the challenges with multilateralism
and cooperation between states and
institutions, I firmly believe in the efficacy of
international treaties and national instruments.
 But how do we strengthen institutions
tasked with dispensing justice?
 The causal link between justice and
sustainable development is global access to
the former without prejudice. The concept of
justice conflates the principles of fairness and
equity. A just and equitable society is one which
prioritises, among other things, equal access
to education, zero tolerance for discrimination
against women and girls, non-discriminatory
laws and policies and education on human
rights.
 My primary agenda as Chief Prosecutor was
to ensure that victims of international crimes
were given access to justice. I was certainly met
with adamant resistance; needless to recall all
the details. The reluctance and rejection of the
ICC jurisdiction also contributes to the denial
of justice, especially where national systems
are unwilling and unable to dispense justice.
This is a tool politicians and governments
use to prosper their own agenda, even when
allegedly committing atrocity crimes.
Accessibility to forms of redress is a crucial
aspect of sustainable development when it
comes to justice. During my time at the ICC,
one of the main challenges the Court faced,
and may continue to face, is dissemination
of knowledge about the Court’s jurisdictional
parameters and function.
 The ICC is a court of last resort. It is an
extension of national judicial systems in
the fight to end impunity. The Office of the
Prosecutor liaises with domestic systems by
encouraging and supporting, in the context of
its core activities, genuine national proceedings
and dialogue with states.
 The ICC is not designed to replace national
systems, nor is it designed to take over what
is primarily their responsibility to investigate
and prosecute serious crimes of international
concern. It is therefore important that at the
national and regional levels, awareness is
raised about how strong institutions working in
collaboration can produce better outcomes in
the fight against injustice.
 Various campaigns labelled the ICC as
a “white man’s court” on the false premise
that the Court targets African countries and
leaders, but not their global counterparts. This
fallacious and unjustifiable claim pushed some
African states to attempt to withdraw from the
Rome Statute. However, it must be said that
there can never be an excuse for impunity.
Victims should never be re-victimised.
 What surprised me the most about the
above events was the lack of discussion around
justice for victims of these alleged crimes. The
failure to centre victims when seeking justice,
can deter this critical debate from the essential.
 There is more work to be done. We must
pursue peace by upholding the rule of law
through strong institutions, and strive towards
a more just world.
I remember hearing stories of how Madiba
reacted to maltreatment by prison personnel,
saying:
 “General, I want to say one thing to you,
you are a general on the other side while I
am a commander on this side. When we have
fought it out and reduced our country to ashes,
it would still be necessary for one to accept the
surrender from the other – whoever wins or
whoever loses, but how we would behave at
that moment of surrender would be determined
by how we have treated each other now …”
 Only someone with such integrity and
foresight could sustain Madiba’s frame of mind.
He understood that burning bridges, while
always an option, was not a viable alternative
in the given circumstance. Preserving these
ideologies, as effectuated by the work of the
Nelson Mandela Foundation, defines how we
recount history on our own terms, and shape
young minds of today for tomorrow.
 So, I implore us to ponder the bigger picture
and embrace the goal of peace, justice and
sustainable development within the framework
of strong institutions.
 We must remember and uphold
our collective and individual roles and
responsibilities as active citizens of the globe.
How we choose to come together in solidarity,
to build systems of accountability that strive
towards peace and justice, can truly forge
transgenerational impact and sustainable
change. Again, I quote Mandela as he said,
this great rock of Qunu: “It is in your hands to
make a difference.”
Madame Fatou Bensouda delivered the 19th Nelson Mandela
Annual Lecture on 25 August 2021. Mme Bensouda delivered
her speech virtually from The Hague in the Netherlands, as
COVID-19 considerations prevented the Annual Lecture,
organised by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, from being
presented in person.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
42
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  43
AFRICAN GREEN STIMULUS PROGRAMME A SOURCE OF PRIDE
African Green Stimulus
Programme a source of pride
The rapid progress in the development and implementation of this African-led and
-owned programme is a source of pride for the continent, more so, as this programme
is intended to significantly contribute to Africa’s green recovery from the impacts of the
pandemic and support the continent’s journey towards a sustainable and low-carbon
development pathway.
By Barbara Creecy
Minister of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment
T
he 18th Ordinary Session
of the African Ministerial
Conference on the Environment
(AMCEN) Meeting took place
in September 2021 amid the
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
 From an environmental perspective, we
took decisions last year to respond to the
impact of this pandemic in such a way that we
will give hope to our people. In line with this
year’s theme for the 18th Ordinary Session
of AMCEN, “Securing People’s Well-being
and Ensuring Environmental Sustainability
in Africa”, securing and restoring people’s
livelihoods should be a priority in the wake of
this pandemic.
 Since the 17th Ordinary Session of AMCEN,
which took place in Durban in November
2019, much has changed and our lives have
been affected in ways that we could not have
imagined at that time. Despite the challenges,
there has been significant progress in the
implementation of decisions emanating from
the 17th Ordinary Session, which was aptly
themed, “Taking Action for Environmental
Sustainability and Prosperity in Africa”.
The 17th Ordinary Session adopted a decision
on Africa’s climate change priorities and
key policy messages. This decision and key
messages were used as a basis for Africa’s
common negotiating position during the 25th
Conference of Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC COP25) in Madrid, Spain, in
December 2019.
 The 17th Ordinary Session took a
decision to establish a core group of the
African Group of Negotiators on Biodiversity
in developing a common regional position to
AFRICAN GREEN STIMULUS PROGRAMME A SOURCE OF PRIDE
The 17th Ordinary Session took a decision to establish
a core group of the African Group of Negotiators on
Biodiversity in developing a common regional position
to strengthen Africa’s voice on biodiversity.
strengthen Africa’s voice on biodiversity. The
African Group of Negotiators has since been
engaging and articulating African perspectives,
priorities and common positions during the
meetings of the open-ended working group
on the development of the post-2020 Global
Biodiversity Framework and in the preparations
for the 15th meeting of the Conference of
the Parties to the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD COP15).
 The AMCEN 17th Ordinary Session also
took a decision, requesting the African Group
to engage and develop a common African
approach to the fifth session of the UN
Environment Assembly, prior to that session in
2021. Due to COVID-19, a two-stage approach
was adopted of holding a short online session
as the first part of the fifth session of the
Environment Assembly in February 2021 to
consider procedural issues, to be followed
by a resumed in-person session in 2022 to
consider substantive matters are put in place.
Member states and the Africa Group, based in
Nairobi, successfully raised Africa’s voice and
contributed to the outcomes of the first part of
the fifth session of the Environment Assembly.
 Regarding the Africa Environment
Partnership Platform, the African Union (AU)
Development Agency, in collaboration with
the AU Commission and the Government of
the Democratic Republic of Congo, convened
the second edition of the Africa Environment
Partnership Platform on 8 and 9 September
2021.
 The second edition deliberated on ways to
strengthen the coordination mechanisms of the
platform through enhanced engagement with
its stakeholders, and examine opportunities for
using the environment as a vehicle for post-
COVID-19 recovery and sustainability, and
promote synergies between this platform and
the African Green Stimulus Programme.
 The Eighth Special Session of the
conference took place online on 30 November
and 1 December 2020 for the experts and
4 December 2020 for the ministerial segment
under the theme: “Enhancing Environmental
Action for Effective post-COVID-19 Recovery
in Africa”. The Eighth Special Session
recognised that the COVID-19 pandemic
had placed additional pressure on Africa’s
socio-economic development and efforts to
achieve sustainable development and called
for continued efforts to conserve, protect and
enhance the resilience of Africa’s environment
in order to avoid similar crises in future. The
session agreed to adopt the continental-wide
African Green Stimulus Programme to support
the continent’s recovery to the devastating
socio-economic and environmental impacts of
COVID-19 in a sustainable manner.
 Africa’s expectations in the upcoming
UNCBD COP15 and the UNFCCC COP26
and key messages and positions for these
COPs were adopted as well as a ministerial
statement as outcomes of this session.
Two formal meetings of the Bureau of the
Conference were held during the period
since the 17th Ordinary Session. The 30th
meeting of the Bureau of the Conference
took place on 28 May 2020 while the 31st
meeting of the Bureau of the Conference
took place from 26 to 27 May 2021. These
bureau meetings were invaluable in guiding
the work of AMCEN during the challenging
inter-sessional period. Outcome statements
of the key issues discussed at these bureau
meetings were circulated to all member states
to ensure that the continent was kept informed
of developments and ongoing work of AMCEN.
 COVID-19 has shown the importance of
technology in doing business and the benefits
to the environment. In this regard, the online
platform for the African Green Stimulus
Programme, which was first deliberated at
the previous AMCEN Bureau meeting in May
2020, was launched in September 2021.
 The rapid progress in the development
and implementation of this African-led and
-owned programme is a source of pride for
the continent, more so, as this programme
is intended to significantly contribute to
Africa’s green recovery from the impacts of
the pandemic and support the continent’s
journey towards a sustainable and low-carbon
development pathway.
i
The Minister of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, Barbara Creecy, virtually addressed the opening segment of the 18th Ordinary Session of
the African Ministerial Conference on the Environment (AMCEN) on Thursday, 16 September 2021.
 Minister Creecy addressed AMCEN as its outgoing President after she presided over this august conference for the past two years.
 AMCEN was established in December 1985, following a conference of African ministers of environment held in Cairo, Egypt. Its mandate is to
provide advocacy for environmental protection in Africa; and ensure that basic human needs are met adequately and in a sustainable manner, that
social and economic development is realised at all levels and that agricultural activities and practices meet the food security needs of the region.
 The 18th Ordinary Session of the AMCEN provided progress on the African Green Stimulus Programme and launched the programme’s online
platform. The programme intends to provide an overarching framework that will support the “green recovery” from the COVID-19 pandemic, bringing
together existing environment and sustainable development initiatives in Africa in a coherent and coordinated way, while identifying new areas
requiring strategic interventions.
 Addressing the event, the United Nation’s (UN) Under-Secretary-General and Executive Director of the UN Environment Programme, Inger
Andersen, said Africa suffered the most from the climate crisis, from nature and biodiversity to the pollution crisis.
 “It is a crisis that we have to face while dealing with the ongoing human and economic tragedy of COVID-19,” she said, adding that the pandemic
had erased nearly 5% of per capita income in Africa, while food prices were soaring globally.
 According to Andersen, if the green stimulus measure is done right, it could boost the economy in the short term, deliver growth pathways that
are sustainable and mitigate environmental degradation.
 All of these “wins” would deliver livelihoods, food security, economic prosperity and peace.
 She described the stimulus programme as a critical step in taking advantage of this opportunity.
 “The programme hits all the right notes: climate action, air quality, land restoration, biodiversity, blue economy, green cities and so on,” Andersen added.
 Minister Creecy said it was an honour and privilege to preside over the august conference over the past two years and extended her best wishes
to her successor, Minister Abdul Karim Sall of Senegal.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
44
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  45
On 31 July, Pan-African Women’s Day was observed under the theme: “Financial
Inclusion of Women: Challenges and Opportunities”. Our goal is to allow women
across Africa to trade on the continent, across borders.
GBVF: We can eradicate
this scourge together
A
s we launched Women
Month 2021 in August, we
honoured, remembered and
saluted all women from all
generations who have been
part of our struggle and have
made significant contributions for our nation’s
freedom, democracy and development.
 This year, we commemorated Women’s
Month under the theme: “The Year of Charlotte
Maxeke: Realising Women’s Rights”. This
was in recognition and celebration of the
150th birthday anniversary of Mme Charlotte
Makgomo Mannya-Maxeke.
 Women’s Month provides a unique
opportunity to pay tribute to the role and
contribution of women in shaping the current
South Africa’s democratic dispensation.
 It also an opportunity to reflect on what
progress we have made and current challenges
in achieving gender equality in our country.
 We once again commemorated Women’s
Month and Women’s Day under difficult
circumstances due to the ongoing challenges
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities
GBVF: WE CAN ERADICATE THIS SCOURGE TOGETHER
This pandemic has further exacerbated the
plight of women by increasing women’s
economic and social insecurity.
 Over the past year, the COVID-19
pandemic has exacerbated the suffering with
heart-wrenching impact on individual women,
children and LGBTQIA+ persons, families,
communities and society as a whole.
 Despite the difficult situation confronting
us, it was of utmost importance that we used
the month of August to turn the spotlight to the
plight of women in this country.
 Women and the LGBTQI community in our
country continue to experience the worst forms
of violence and abuse.
 Women's economic inclusion and access
to the mainstream of the economy should be
a priority. We have to provide women the
key to freeing themselves from the shackles
of depending on their perpetrators for
livelihoods.
 We therefore call on all government
departments and the private sector to give
40% of procurement to women-owned
business, even when there’s no legislation, as
we all have a moral duty to have a just an equal
society as enshrined in our Constitution, and
reach 50-50 by 2030.
 On 31 July, Pan-African Women’s Day was
observed under the theme: “Financial Inclusion
of Women: Challenges and Opportunities”.
Our goal is to allow women across Africa to
trade on the continent, across borders.
 The African Continental Free Trade Area
Agreement will create the largest free trade
area in the world measured by the number of
countries participating.
 Access to information on how to register a
business, how to do business with the State, in
all languages, remains a challenge for tens of
thousands of women.
In August 2021, government started a series
of radio shows on 11 of South Africa largest
stations. The focus was to answer the
questions women business owners have, but
cannot get answers to, especially in all African
languages.
 We also hosted the Women’s Economic
Assembly in response to Pillar Five of the
GBVF: WE CAN ERADICATE THIS SCOURGE TOGETHER
I recently attended the Women Peace Table convened
by the Gertrude Shope Women’s Mediators Network.
I was inspired by the willingness of women to roll up
their sleeves and contribute to long-lasting solutions to
challenges facing our country.
•  National departments have integrated
the NSP priorities in their departmental
annual plans and have been reporting
against their annual targets.
•  We are working with provinces and
districts to integrate the NSP into their
provincial departmental plans, district
development plans and establish district
rapid response teams.
•  We have developed a Draft Bill to
establish a National Council on GBVF
that will coordinate the implementation of
the NSP to ensure that as a nation, we
eradicate GBVF in this decade. We will be
consulting on this Bill soon.
The implementation of the NSP is not only the
responsibility of government.
 I call on all sectors of our society to take
ownership of the NSP on GBVF, so that we can
eradicate this scourge together.
 Our appeal to the nation is to be part of
a collective of change-makers of all ages,
ensuring equality for women and girls and
realising women’s rights.
National Strategic Plan (NSP) on Gender-
Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF).
 The assembly put major sectors under the
spotlight to evaluate the level of participation
of women-owned businesses. We are also
beginning to look more into manufacturing,
mining and mineral exploration, and women in
the green economy.
 I recently attended the Women Peace Table
convened by the Gertrude Shope Women’s
Mediators Network.
 I was inspired by the willingness of women
to roll up their sleeves and contribute to long-
lasting solutions to challenges facing our
country.
 This is consistent with a Sepedi saying that
“Mosadi o tshwara thipa ka mo bogaleng”–
loosely translated as “a woman holds a knife
where it’s sharp”.
 We are better together. Let us work to
rebuild South Africa. It is time to rise from the
ashes in a united front to rebuild our country
from the devastation.
 I wish to call on all South Africans to join
hands and lend a helping hand in our national
effort to rebuild. Together, we can come back
stronger.
 Our nation’s unyielding spirit gives us hope
with which we can rebuild our future together.
This is the same spirit that helped us reconcile
our differences and make a break from the
oppressive apartheid regime.
 As a people, we have performed the miracle
before, we made the transition from apartheid
to peace and democracy. Government cannot
do this alone.
 We need all citizens to assist in the task of
rebuilding our nation
We commend the role women played as
peacebuilders in the struggle for our freedom
by maintaining peace efforts and ensuring
calm within communities.
 The National Action Plan on Women,
Peace and Security was adopted by Cabinet
in August 2020 and launched in March 2021
to implement United Nations Security Council
Resolution 1325.
 The implementation of the action plan
requires robust dialogue at every level of
society in which communities are central to
developing peacebuilding strategies that are
able to speak to the unique conditions in each
community.
 The second pandemic of GBVF remains
a dark stain on our country’s image. As
government, we remain committed to
eradicating GBVF in our lifetime.
 Our priority is the implementation of the
NSP on GBVF in the context of the Inter-
Ministerial Committee on GBVF.
 We have made remarkable progress in the
implementation of the NSP in the following
areas:
•  Monthly progress reports on the
implementation of the NSP were
submitted to the President.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
46
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  47
It is upon the current generation of our youth to eradicate the scourge of poverty, but they
cannot do it alone. They will need the support of those who did it before, including the
support of government, the private sector and other key institutions and stakeholders.
South African and Nigerian youth must
collaborate in pooling indigenous
knowledge for job creation
Dr Bobby J Moroe
Deputy High Commissioner of South Africa to the Federal Republic of Nigeria
I
ndigenous Knowledge Systems (IKS) can
be used as a tool to enhance and promote
the rich diversity and complementarity
of Nigeria and South Africa’s respective
cultures, home-grown philosophies and
indigenous languages as resources for
social cohesion, unity, job and wealth creation.
 For the continent to industrialise, South
Africa and Nigeria, as two of the two biggest
economies in Africa, must lead the charge and
put into place mechanisms and interventions
to mitigate the current challenges of poverty,
inequality and unemployment.
 The two continental giants, with their
buoyant economies and vibrant youth,
are poised to change existing perceptions
about the developmental trajectory of the
entire continent. They are better placed to
deliberately work together to demystify the
stigma attached to the notion that Africa is rich
with mineral resources, yet remains home to
the poorest people in the world.
 A lot has been written about this narrative,
but little has been done to change it. In one
of his many inspiring quotes, Nelson Mandela
reminds humanity that “like slavery and
apartheid, poverty is not natural. It is man-
made, and it can be overcome and eradicated
by the actions of human beings. And
overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity.
It is an act of justice … Sometimes, it falls on
a generation to be great. You can be that great
generation. Let your greatness blossom.”
 It is upon the current generation of our
youth to eradicate the scourge of poverty, but
they cannot do it alone. They will need the
support of those who did it before, including
the support of government, the private sector
and other key institutions and stakeholders.
 In 1675, scientist Isaac Newton wrote a
letter to associated scientist Robert Hooke,
which contained this powerful quote on
succession, support and mentorship: “If I have
seen further, it is by standing on the shoulders
of giants.” What this means is that in order to
gain more insights about what needs to be
done to overcome poverty, the youth of today
can tap into the wells of wisdom of those who
have come before. Similarly, they too should
leave the traces of their footprints for posterity.
 The youth of Nigeria and South Africa
share similar developmental challenges, and
common aspirations. Many of the youth in
both countries are armed with a multiplicity of
skills, which can be exchanged and shared
among themselves through various training
programmes. They possess enough energy
to contribute to the growth of their respective
economies through a variety of activities.
 According to Young Africa Connects, before
the end of the 21st century, more than a billion
young people will reach working age, making it
For the continent to industrialise, South Africa and
Nigeria, as two of the two biggest economies in Africa,
must lead the charge and put into place mechanisms
and interventions to mitigate the current challenges of
poverty, inequality and unemployment.
SOUTH AFRICAN AND NIGERIAN YOUTH MUST COLLABORATE
Many of the youth in both countries are armed with
a multiplicity of skills, which can be exchanged and
shared among themselves through various training
programmes. They possess enough energy to
contribute to the growth of their respective economies
through a variety of activities.
the largest labour market in the world. As the
job market becomes competitive, employers
expect African youth to have relevant and
employable skills. However, the notion that
African youth lack skills is often grossly
misplaced, and only linked to skills that are
required in the formal workplace.
 Today, most African youth possess skills,
but they do not match skills required in the
workplace – this must not, therefore, suggest
that they are unskilled. They are just skilled
differently, outside the often Eurocentric
definition of what constitutes a skilled person.
 Individually and collectively, the youth
of today are able to make things happen
for themselves. What they require is the
necessary support from both the private sector
and government.
 Both South African and Nigerian youth
are ambitious, enthusiastic, energetic and
promising – they are an asset. Many of them
are tech-savvy and involved in online business
activities through social media. Today, it
is not unusual to buy a variety of products
through social media platforms. Those who
are not involved in online business platforms
are selling products, including food, clothes,
accessories and hair and beauty products.
They are active and vibrant contributors to the
economic growth of their respective countries.
However, they are considered vulnerable in
society because of the rapid pace of change
they experience at this time in their lives.
 The unemployment or unemployability
of youth in Africa aggravates efforts made
by governments to grow their respective
economies. This phenomenon has also
led to social immoralities among the youth
themselves.
 Bringing the youth of both countries together
is essential in mitigating and circumventing
the prevalent social immoralities borne by
unemployment. There is a lot that can be done
to advance the course of the youth. One area
that has received little attention among the
youth is the appreciation and understanding of
IKS.
 The concept of IKS refers to bodies
of knowledge, technologies, skills, beliefs
and value systems, including home-grown
philosophies, produced locally among the
diverse cultural communities in both South
Africa and Nigeria, and traditionally transmitted
orally from one generation to the next.
 IKS, therefore, are outcomes of
generations of diverse cultural communities’
long observation, experimentation and lived
experiences in the symbiotic relationship
between their cultural and natural
environments. These knowledge systems
and home-grown philosophies are stored
and articulated in a diversity of indigenous
languages, art forms, food cultures, textile
designs, healthcare and wellness practices.
For example, the youth of both countries can
host, on a rotational basis, indigenous food
and music festivals, indigenous knowledge-
exchange programmes on herbs, indigenous
textile fashion shows, and art and film festivals.
 These are tangible and pragmatic
programmes in which partnerships can be
sought with the private and public sectors
of both countries. As a matter of fact, Africa
in general, and South Africa and Nigeria
in particular, have always been sources of
creativity and inspiration for non-African global
designers, musicians, painters and other
categories of artists.
 Yet, the continent accounts for about only
5% of the global market for these industries,
and the role of the private sector has been
minimal in the promotion of these industries
for job and wealth creation among the African
youth. Such projects will be key in building
joint IKS-based business and investment
programmes for social cohesion, unity, job and
wealth creation.
 Clearly, if the youth of both countries can
be organised and brought together under one
umbrella to engage, much can be achieved
between the two countries.
 The philosophy of building on the
indigenous is not necessarily what is traditional,
but whatever the youth in both countries, in
their cultural and ecological diversity, consider
being an authentic expression of themselves
as Africans, and as a conduit to bring them
together towards a common good. This is
based on the consideration that Africa’s history
of slavery, colonisation, apartheid and other
forms of imperialism, including globalisation,
destroyed the sense of confidence among the
African youth and further divided and polarised
them.
 The marginalisation of diversity of African
cultures is inextricably linked to that of African
IKS, including home-grown philosophies and
indigenous languages.
 For many years, Africa’s rich diversity of
cultures and languages was portrayed as a
developmental problem rather than an asset in
the complementarity of knowledge systems in
the search for sustainable solutions to global
developmental challenges.
 The African indigenous languages have
been reduced to mere tools of communication
rather than as repositories of indigenous
scientific, technological and innovative
knowledge systems for sustainable community
livelihood and development.
 The inherited colonial and apartheid formal
education perpetuates this marginalisation by
looking at African IKS and African languages
as unscientific and primitive, and promotes
the acceptance of a Eurocentric approach
to education. This is despite the fact that the
majority of Africans, including the African youth
in the marginalised communities of the two
countries, still depend on IKS for livelihoods.
 For example, for food security, there are still
patches of vegetable gardens in many families,
and in as far as healthcare and well-being are
concerned, most of the ingredients used are
sourced from indigenous plants. These are
among the tangible IKS-based forms of living
and income generation.
 The idea to bring together youth from both
countries is, in part, based on the increasing
realisation that despite the rich diversity of
cultures associated with IKS in the two countries,
coupled with the high level of potential inherent
in South African and Nigerian youths such
as their digital knowledge, skills and interest
in ICTs, there are limited strategic platforms
focussing on promoting the role of youth-led
cultural and creative industries to mitigate the
challenges of youth unemployment, poverty
and inequality, including competition for scarce
socio-economic resources and other life
opportunities.
 These persistent challenges, if left
unattended, could lead to other forms of
conflict among the youth as they compete
for limited resources. Through an organised
dialogue, they can come together and create
opportunities for themselves and those who
will come after them.
 The COVID-19 pandemic has greatly
affected the cultural and creative industry
worldwide, and this is where the majority of
the marginalised youth are engaged. In this

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
48
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  49
regard, it is important that the private sectors
of both countries support these initiatives.
 South Africa and Nigeria, as two of the
largest economies in Africa, can leverage on
their sizeable, diverse and dynamic private
sectors to facilitate and support the building of
youth-led digital cultural and creative industries
for job and wealth creation in times of the
pandemic. To take the first step in realising
such a form of social cohesion, there will be
a need to develop a database of identified/
relevant youth organisations, the private sector
and other stakeholders in both countries as
champions who could promote and contribute
to the effective implementation and impact of
the project initiative.
 It will also be critical that a concept note
is shared with the private sector and other
stakeholders, in both countries, outlining the
Africa in general, and South Africa and Nigeria in particular, have always been sources
of creativity and inspiration for non-African global designers, musicians, painters and
other categories of artists.
methodology to be used towards achieving the
enhancement of social cohesion between the
youth of South Africa and Nigeria through IKS.
Furthermore, establishing a steering committee
and focal points, comprising stakeholders from
both countries, including the private sector, will be
key in driving the process of establishing a formal
platform where the youth can come together.
 Convening a youth task team and
regular meetings will assist in setting the ball
rolling towards formal engagement about
pragmatic programmes. The task teams may
be established according to communities
of practice (art forms, food cultures, textile
designs and so on) to profile the rich knowledge
and skills among the youth in both countries,
which could contribute to the establishment of
digital cultural and creative industry platforms for
job and wealth creation.
A concise and unambiguous roadmap will
become a strategic mechanism to implement the
project initiative, including building partnerships
with diverse stakeholders. Through an organised
platform/dialogue, the voices of the youth will be
strengthened, their role in society will be clearly
defined and their commitment to being creative
will be revealed.
 After all is said and done, the youth of South
Africa and Nigeria carry with them great potential
to build on what the two groups have achieved in
their bilateral relations. They are poised to ensure
that they do their bit in building a sustainable
future through the indigenous, in transforming the
rich diversity of the natural, cultural and linguistic
resources of South Africa and Nigeria into goods
and services for social cohesion, job and wealth
creation.
SOUTH AFRICAN AND NIGERIAN YOUTH MUST COLLABORATE
www.uscda.org.za • info@uscda.org.za • 039 682 3881
The South Coast has many natural, economic
and structural advantages:
• Market access – gateway to the Eastern Cape,
 close proximity to Durban Harbour
• Direct flights to Johannesburg daily from Margate
 Airport, and weekly to Cape Town
• Skilled workforce
• Ease of doing business, government committed to
 supporting business
• Competitive operative environment – Ugu offers
 investors many advantages including competitive
 labour costs and low cost of living
• Subtropical climate
Let Ugu South Coast Development Agency
assist you
• Ugu South Coast Development Agency is
responsible for ensuring that foreign investors
have the information and support they need to
take advantage of the business opportunities in
the following sectors:
 • Property Development
 • Agriculture
 • Tourism
 • Ocean Economy
 • Small-scale Mining
 • Manufacturing
Endless Opportunities
With abundant natural advantages, close proximity to
fast-growing SA economies, a well-skilled workforce
and a stable economy, Ugu represents an unrivalled
investment destination.
How we help investors
We understand the complexities of investing and
provide the information required for you to make good
investment decisions in a coordinated approach that
saves investors time and money.
Our specialist investment team provides a range of
business and investment services to investors:
• Detailed industry knowledge about business costs
• Preparing business cases
• Arranging site visits
• Introduction to industry and service providers
• Government liaison
• Market intelligence
• Partnering with local councils, economic
development agencies/departments and private

service providers to identify investment-ready
projects.
Snapshot of Ugu – South Coast
Province: KwaZulu-Natal
Economic Hub/City: Port Shepstone
Climate: Subtropical
Summer: 20
O to 31OC Winter: 15O to 22OC
Coastline: 112km
Total area: 5,047km
2 (1,949mi2)
Population: 722,484
Airport: Margate Airport
Unlocking Economic Potential

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
50
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  51
F reedom Park
THE VOICE OF OUR NATION
Inspiring a love of Culture and Heritage
•	 A vast wall commemorating those
who sacrificed . . .
•	 An eternal flame paying tribute to
unknown heroes and heroines . . .
•	 A gallery dedicated to the legends of
humanity . . .
•	 A symbolic resting place for our fallen
countrymen and women . . .
•	 the story of Southern Africa’s 3.6
billion years of history
•	 this is Freedom Park, hailed the
fulcrum of our vision to heal and
reconcile our nation …
The message that Freedom Park sends to every South African is this:
look at where we come from, look what we have lived through – if we
can do that and survive then our future must hold infinite possibilities.
Let Freedom Park open your mind to these possibilities.
Everything at Freedom Park is representative of our history, heritage,
culture, spirituality and indigenous knowledge. Even the 360° view of
the capital city from Salvokop Hill symbolises a link between the past,
present and future. From here you can see the Voortrekker Monument –
a reflection of the past; the Union Buildings – our current governance; and
UNISA’s Centre of Knowledge – engendering a sense of knowledge and
development for the future.
Freedom Park is a one-stop heritage destination because we narrate the
history, heritage, culture, spirituality and indigenous knowledge systems
of our nation.
Freedom Park honours those who took a stand and sacrificed for a
better South Africa. We want our youth to know that there is a place that
recognises such heroes and heroines. Our youth’s contributions mattered
so much in the history of our nation. It is, however, time for today’s youth to
take their lead from those who have gone before and take a stand to build
this nation even further.”
EDUCATiNg oUr NATioN’s yoUTh
We have a fully-equipped education unit that arranges activities that bring
together youth from diverse backgrounds to talk about culture and heritage.
We also have specific programmes for basic and tertiary education and a
special Youth out of School programme that teaches young people about
where they come from and assists them to develop a sense of pride in their
own identity. We teach young people about tolerance and acceptance,
and to understand and respect each other. We believe that racism
and intolerance often result from ignorance and misconceptions about
who you are.’
Freedom Park also focuses on school tours but is aware that accessibility
becomes an acute challenge; hence the outreach programmes that aim to
take Freedom Park to the people.
our visiting hours are 08:00 – 16:30, Monday through
to sunday. We offer scheduled guided tours 09:00, 12:00
and 15:00.
For a tour, please contact us on 012 336 4020.
AWArD-WiNNiNg loCATioN
Besides visiting Freedom Park for a tour, or to spend time learning,
reflecting and praying, it is also the perfect location for corporate functions
and retreats, picnics, and even concerts. This beautiful and inspiring venue
offers state-of-the-art technology and facilities, as well as a peaceful space
for walking, hiking and bird watching. ‘When you’re at Freedom Park you’ll
forget that you’re in the city centre. In recent years, Freedom Park was
voted among the top 10 architecturally outstanding museums in the world
and Pretoria’s best heritage destination. We believe these are testaments
to the beauty and uniqueness of Freedom Park.
Please visit us on www.freedompark.co.za

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
52
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  53
Together, the All Blacks and the Springboks have combined to be the most successful
sides in the professional era. And despite many hard-fought games, there has always
been a deep respect between the two sides.
Celebrating 100 years of rugby between
New Zealand and South Africa:
How sport can bring people together, inspire and unify
By Rebecca Williams
Acting High Commissioner, New Zealand High Commission to South Africa
CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF RUGBY
A
otearoa New Zealand and
South Africa enjoy a deep
and diverse relationship, with
strong political and economic
ties as well as long-standing
people-to-people and historical
links. We have fought together, and joined our
voices against apartheid together.
 We have also played sport together.
Rugby has provided a common purpose to
bring our two nations together, and it has
strengthened the close bonds between our
people. 2021 marks 100 years of the sporting
rugby relationship between the All Blacks and
the Springboks. And what a relationship it’s
been – from historic wins to bitter defeats, from
controversial tours to legendary players from
both sides of the ledger.
 For so many New Zealanders and South
Africans, rugby is an intrinsic part of our culture
and our history. Some of us will remember
eating oranges at half time during school
rugby games, or watching a local game from
the grassy sidelines. Others of us will recall
sitting down with our family, or meeting a group
of friends at a local pub, and watching one of
the iconic rugby games of yesteryear. All of
us, I’m sure, will remember the iconic image
of Nelson Mandela, wearing a Springbok
rugby jersey, shaking the hand of a victorious
Francois Pienaar holding the 1995 Rugby
World Cup. It was a symbolic moment in South
Africa’s history, where all South Africans were
united as one, and a moment where rugby
played an integral role in facilitating a step
towards reconciliation across the nation. For
us kiwis who were somewhat shell-shocked
at Joel Stransky’s drop goal in extra time
(including myself, as a 15-year-old at the time
whose bedroom wall was plastered with rugby
posters), we also felt a great privilege to be
part of history, and part of something bigger
than a rugby game.
In the beginning
Where did it all begin for the All Blacks and
Springboks? The two great sides first met in
Dunedin on 13 August, 1921. While the All
CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF RUGBY
We can also be excited
that a new era of rugby
competition between
Aotearoa New Zealand
and South Africa lies
with the Black Ferns
and Springbok Women.
Although the two sides
have only played once,
we are excited to watch
the development of the
women’s game across
both countries.
Blacks won that test, the series was drawn and
set up every meeting to come as an unofficial
world championship. Tours occurred around
once every decade, with each meeting highly
anticipated and intensely followed. In 1956,
61 240 people watched the All Blacks defeat
the Springboks at Eden Park – a record crowd
for a rugby game in Aotearoa New Zealand
that stands to this day.
The 1981 Springbok tour
Our rugby relationship has not been without its
controversy, as most famously represented by
the 1981 Springbok tour to New Zealand. This
tour inspired widespread, nationwide protests
in Aotearoa New Zealand against apartheid
in South Africa. The protests had a profound
impact on the New Zealand community at
the time, and the anti-apartheid movement in
South Africa was buoyed by the protests in
New Zealand. Nelson Mandela recalled that
when he was in his prison cell on Robben
Island and heard that the Hamilton rugby game
had been cancelled, it was as “if the sun had
come out”.
Our rugby relationship grows from strength
to strength
Since the end of apartheid, the relationship
has continued to grow. Together, the All Blacks
and the Springboks have combined to be
the most successful sides in the professional
era. And despite many hard-fought games,
there has always been a deep respect
between the two sides. Perhaps one of the
greatest signs of respect for the All Blacks
for their greatest rival came in 2005, when
the All Blacks debuted their new haka for the
Springboks in Dunedin. The haka is a type of
ceremonial Māori (the indigenous people of
New Zealand) dance or challenge that can
be used to intimidate opponents on the sports
field. The All Blacks perform the haka before
each match to show strength and physical
prowess. The debut before a Springboks game
was a sign of respect and recognition of the
Springboks’ strength, and since then, Kapa
O Pango (meaning “Team in Black”) has only
been performed before the All Blacks’ most
important test matches.
 We can also be excited that a new era of
rugby competition between Aotearoa New
Zealand and South Africa lies with the Black
Ferns and Springbok Women. Although the two
sides have only played once, we are excited to
watch the development of the women’s game
across both countries.
How sport can bring people together,
inspire and unify
As we reflect on the last 100 years, one aspect
is evident: Sport is not “just a game”. Sport can
bridge relationships across social, economic
and cultural divides within society. As seen
through the 1981 Springbok tour, sport can
build a sense of shared identity among groups
that otherwise may have not felt a common
sense of purpose. Mandela once said:
 ‘”Sport has the power to change the
world; it has the power to inspire; it has the
power to unite people in a way that little else
does. It speaks to youth in a language they
understand. Sport can create hope where once
there was only despair. It is more powerful than
governments in breaking down racial barriers.”
 With Mandela’s prophetic words in mind,
we are celebrating our rugby relationship
centenary through a six-week sports
diplomacy campaign that aims to demonstrate
how sport can bring people together, inspire
and unify. Central to our campaign is a social
media campaign to increase public awareness
of the strength and longevity of our rugby
relationship. Our campaign will use archived
photos to “tell the story” of 100 years of
playing rugby together, including touching on
many of the iconic moments and players in
our shared history. Our aim is to reach out to
a broad audience, including the wider South
African public. We want to connect with both
ardent rugby fans who will enjoy a trip down
memory lane, as well as bring on-board a new
generation of rugby fans.
 Our campaign also includes in-person
events to further increase awareness of the
enduring relationship between South Africa and
Aotearoa New Zealand through highlighting our
shared interests. We hosted New Zealand and
South African friends spanning the business
community and government in Pretoria to
watch the 100th test between the two great
sides on 25 September 2021. We are also
bringing together New Zealand and South
African friends for an informal networking
event in Cape Town to celebrate the centenary.
The challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic
have certainly given us all a new appreciation
of the universal language of sport to connect,
and we are excited for both of these events to
reconnect old friends, as well help forge new
relationships.
 For 100 years, rugby has brought South
Africans and New Zealanders together, both on
and off the field. The Māori have a whakatauki
(proverbial saying) He waka eke noa. The
translation of this is ”the canoe which we are
all in without exception”, meaning that we are
all in this together. We look forward to another
100 years playing together, and continuing to
build our relationship with South Africa through
a common identity we share in rugby.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
54
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  55
Cosmos flowers in full bloom along the roadside in the eastern Free State.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
56 57
LIBERATION HERITAGE: TSIETSI MASHININI
T
sietsi Mashinini was born on
27 January 1957 in Western
Jabavu, Soweto. Clad in his
famous school uniform with a
lean tie on, Mashinini’s image
immaculately hid the fiery
revolutionary who led and agitated students
across Orlando township on that fateful, yet
defining day, on 16 June 1976.
 The events of that day were to catapult him
into a radical young man, leading masses in
the student uprisings. He was already active in
his local Methodist parish and chairperson of
the Methodist Wesley Youth Guild at the age of
16. As a student at the famous Morris Isaacson
High School where it all began, he chaired the
school’s Debating Society.
 Mashinini joined the branch of the South
African Students Movement as a member, a
student body established to assist students
with the transition from Matric to university. He
was elected president of the Soweto Student
Representative Council (SSRC) at the time of
the uprisings.
 It is related that at a meeting of students
from various schools in Soweto on Sunday,
13 June 1976, Mashinini delivered a moving
and remarkable speech, calling for a mass
demonstration the following Wednesday,
16 June, against the use of Afrikaans as a
medium of instruction in all black schools.
 A well-read student and a gifted public
speaker, he used both these qualities to
maximum effect, mobilising students into
action. When an action committee was set up
to prepare for the June 16 event, later renamed
the SSRC, he emerged as an undisputed
leader of the student uprisings that soon
spread to the rest of the country.
On that fateful and historic morning of 16 June,
at Morris Isaacson High School during assembly,
Mashinini climbed onto the podium and led
students into song, and out of the school grounds
towards their assembly point for the planned
student demonstration.
 They were then joined by students from
other schools in Soweto. It is estimated that
about 20 000 uniformed students joined
the mass demonstration that day. As they
marched down in a throng, they came across
a police barricade on their way to the mass
demonstration assembly point. He stood on
a makeshift podium to make an impromptu,
yet spirited address, telling students to march
peacefully, orderly and not to provoke the
police.
 The horrific events of that day, which saw
the South African police shoot live bullets at
peacefully protesting students, turned him
into an instant hero and an activist of national
importance. Not surprisingly after 16 June, he
became the most wanted man in the country by
the apartheid police. He nonetheless continued
to promote the message of student resistance
against Bantu education, particularly the use of
Afrikaans as a medium of education in black
schools.
 Against harassment by the State and
imminent police arrest, he stood firm and
steadfast by issuing press statements, calling
for students to boycott classes and wrote
critically of the police’s actions on 16 June that
saw innocent students massacred. He became
a sworn enemy of the apartheid government
with police continuously searching for him,
a situation that compelled him to flee the
country. The police even offered a reward for
information that could lead to his arrest and he
was declared the most wanted person in South
Africa at the time.
It is generally agreed that the events of 16 June
1976 assisted in the biggest recruitment drive
that saw large numbers of youth joining the
ranks of the African National Congress (ANC)
and its military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe,
eventually leading to more vigorous mass
action, international boycotts against apartheid
and finally, the forced political fortunes in South
Africa.
 He eventually left the country for a brief
stay in Botswana. Mashinini later visited the
United Kingdom and the United States where
he addressed the United Nations on the
brutalities of the apartheid regime. By many
accounts, however, Mashinini did not join any
of the established liberation movements in
exile, the ANC or the Pan-Africanist Congress,
preferring to call for their unity.
 He died mysteriously in Guinea Conakry
in 1990, on the eve of South Africa’s political
emancipation. In the end, Tsietsi Mashinini
paid the ultimate price for fostering a revolution
against the oppressive Bantu education
system and apartheid in general. He will
always be remembered as a fearless fighter
and student leader whose name would forever
be etched in memory as one of the outstanding
leaders of the South African revolution, and for
the sacrifices that he made for his country to be
liberated.
 On 27 April 2011, the South African
Government honoured Tsietsi Mashinini
with the Order of Luthuli in Bronze for his
inspirational leadership to young people, for
the sacrifices he made while leading students
against Afrikaans as a medium of instruction
and for his role in the struggle against
apartheid.

www.thepresidency.gov.za
Liberation heritage: T sietsi Mashinini

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
58 59
By Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of Tourism
T
he African Travel and Tourism
Summit was hosted by South
Africa in September 2021 to
rethink, recalibrate and find our
way out of this situation that we
are in where the pandemic has
strangulated the tourism industry.
 It was befitting that we hosted the Africa
Travel and Tourism Summit in September 2021
during Tourism Month when South Africa
celebrated tourism and heritage.
 Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the
dream and narrative around Africa’s tourism
sector was inspiringly vivid. It was a dream
of a continent rising – rising and freeing itself
from the shackles of stigmatisation of us as
unsafe, uncouth and unwelcoming.
 From the expansive arid plainlands in
the north to the southern tip of Africa where
two oceans meet, with its diverse fusion of
peoples and cultures, we celebrate the world
in one continent.
Rebuilding the tourism sector post-COVID-19
As we embark on new ways of doing business and hosting the peoples of the
world, let’s draw lessons from the experiences of the pandemic and ensure that our
businesses are more robust and agile for future sustainability.
We celebrate the rising giant that is Africa. We
celebrate her natural vast wonders, ranging
from the plains and woodlands of the Serengeti
to the arid Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park, to the
beach elephants of the greater St Lucia and
the pyramids of Giza.
 The summit enjoyed the participation of
African community delegates who aimed
to understand how tourism had shifted on
the African continent and identified new
opportunities.
 It was therefore a catalyst for engagement
on the current state of tourism on the African
continent, the sharing of ideas on collective
recovery initiatives and solutions and exploring
global tourism survival trends and challenges
facing the global tourism industry.
 The summit unpacked the main themes of:
• Best Practice for Brand Africa
• Sectoral Transformation
• Leisure and Business Opportunities
•  Strengthening and Enabling Economic
Capabilities.
It also afforded Africa’s tourism leaders a
platform to create solutions for Africa and
contribute to global solutions for the industry in
efforts to awaken a new beginning for Africa.
How far we have come
Quoting pre-COVID-19 statistics, the World
Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) indicates
that Africa’s tourism industry was robust. It
reports that tourism generated in excess of
US$200 billion (approximately R3 trillion)
– accounting for 6.9% of Africa’s gross
domestic product (GDP) – and had supported
24.7 million jobs.
 Following the outbreak of the COVID-19
pandemic, WTTC statistics show a decrease
of US$83 billion (or R1.2 trillion) and a loss
of 7.2 million jobs. This downturn trend was
experienced by tourism sectors across the
globe.
 Gatherings such as the summit are crucial
to the industry’s survival. Through these
events, we are able to connect, share ideas
South Africa has always
recognised tourism’s
crucial role in developing
and growing an inclusive
economy. And the fact
that it is listed as one of
eight interventions in its
recovery plan illustrates
this point.
and create a new positive narrative of Africa,
one that shifts from a continent in turmoil to
one that is recovering steadily and ready to do
business.
Africa’s path to recovery from the COVID-19
pandemic
The nightmare of COVID-19 seems eternal
as we move from wave to wave and variant to
variant.
 The African Development Bank, in its
African Economic Outlook 2021, indicates
that most African economies were battered
by COVID-19. Real GDP in Africa contracted
by 2.1% and is projected to grow by 3.4%
this year. This projected recovery will be
underpinned by a resumption of tourism, a
rebound in commodity prices and the roll-
back of pandemic-induced restrictions.
Although all economies in Africa have been
affected by the pandemic, tourism-dependent
economies, oil-exporting economies and
other resource-intensive economies were the
most significantly hit by COVID-19. Tourism-
dependent economies are projected to recover
from an 11.5% GDP decline in 2020 to grow
by 6.2% in 2021; oil-exporting countries,
from a 1.5% decline to grow by 3.1%; and
other resource-intensive economies, from a
4.7% decline to grow by 3.1%. Non-resource-
intensive countries, where output shrank by
0.9% in 2020, are projected to grow by 4.1% in
2021.
 Top tourism-dependant economies
experienced the following decline: Mauritius:
15%, Seychelles: 12% and Carbo Verde:
8.9%. These countries are expected to recover
this year with a projected growth rate of 6.8%,
assuming the pandemic is brought under
control and international travel and tourism are
allowed.
 It is important to note that not all African
countries were impacted the same way by
the COVID-19 pandemic. Experiences in
Africa’s regions and the prospects for growth
are therefore varied. While southern Africa
was hard hit by the pandemic with economic
contraction of 7.0% in 2020 and a projected
growth of 3.2% in 2021 and 2.4% in 2022, East
Africa was the most resilient region. Its growth
prospect is estimated to be 3% in 2021 and
5.6% in 2022. Djibouti (9.9%), Kenya (5%),
Tanzania (4.1%) and Rwanda (3.9%) are
expected to be the top performers.
 West Africa experienced relatively limited
spread of the virus. Many West African
countries maintained positive growth in 2020
thanks to less restrictive lockdowns. These
countries include Benin (2.3%), Côte d’Ivoire
(1.8%) and Niger (1.2%). Countries that
experienced recession include Cabo Verde
(8.9%), Liberia (3.1) and Nigeria (3%). Growth
prospects in West Africa are estimated at 2.8%
in 2021 and 3.9% in 2022.
 GDP growth in Central Africa contracted
by 2.7%. Countries that were most affected
include Cameroon (2.4%), Republic of Congo
(-7.9%), Democratic Republic of Congo
(-1.7%) and Equatorial Guinea (-6.1%). The
region is expected to recover at 3.2% in 2021
and 4% in 2022. The economies of North Africa
contracted by 1.1% in 2020, propped up by
Egypt, which maintained 3.6% growth despite
the relatively severe health impact of the virus
in the country. Other countries contracted
significantly in 2020, including Tunisia (-8.8%),
Morocco (-5.9%) and Algeria (-4.7%). The
effects of COVID-19, internal conflict and a
drop in oil prices caused an estimated 60.3%
contraction of real GDP in Libya. North Africa is
projected to experience robust recovery of 4%
in 2021 and 6% in 2022.
The financial implications of Africa’s
recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic
Africa’ recovery from the pandemic is not going
to be easy. The bank reports that there will be a
surge in African government financing needs to
recover from COVID-19. Since the beginning
of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020,
governments have announced fiscal stimulus
packages ranging in cost from about 0.02% of
GDP in South Sudan to about 10.4% of GDP in
South Africa. The bank estimated that African
governments would need gross financing of
about US$154 billion in 2020/21 to respond to
the crisis. This amount constitutes 97% of the
World Bank’s US$157 billion it has deployed to
fight the health, economic and social impacts
of the pandemic in the whole world. This
means that other sources of funding will have
to be found to help us drive Africa’s recovery
from the pandemic.
Policy priorities to support Africa’s
transformation to a more resilient, inclusive
and sustainable post-pandemic recovery
Despite the economic growth prospects
outlined above, the continued uncertainty
about when the virus would finally be contained
will continue to pose a major threat to Africa’s
recovery. It is therefore important that we
continue to pay attention to policy priorities that
seek to mitigate the impact of the pandemic
but also bolster Africa’s transformation to a
more resilient, inclusive and sustainable post-
pandemic recovery.
 It would be critically important that we
continue to focus on the following priorities,
among other initiatives, that individual
countries are taking:
•  continuing support for the health sector to
consolidate gains in the fight against the
pandemic
•  effectively using monetary and fiscal sup-
port to underpin the economic recovery
where policy space remains available
•  expanding social safety nets and making
growth more equitable to address increas-
ing poverty
•  scaling up active labour market policies to
retool the workforce for the future of work
•  intensifying structural transformation
through digitalisation and economic diver-
sification to build resilience
•  fostering regional and multinational co-
operation to ensure sustained and wide-
spread recovery.
Reopening African markets
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a more
negative impact on our tourism activities in the
REBUILDING THE TOURISM SECTOR POST-COVID-19

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
60 61
first half of 2020 than anticipated, and although
recovery has begun in the third quarter, with
the pandemic continuing to spread, many
countries have slowed re-opening, and some
are reinstating partial or complete lockdowns to
protect susceptible populations.
 While our borders are open to accept visitors
from across the globe, international travel has
also been restricted by border closures in a
number of our key international source markets.
 The Kigali Extraordinary Summit of 2018 in
Rwanda put in motion the African Continental
Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). The
agreement promises to create one African
market with a combined GDP of more than
US$2 trillion.
 The Kigali Declaration and the Protocol
on Free Movement of Persons, signed at the
summit, put into effect the AfCFTA and will
ease border controls to allow free movement of
people.
 The declaration was ratified by 47 member
states and is meant to boost trade between
African countries, remove non-tariff and
tariff barriers on goods and services that will
double intra-African trade, and ensure local
beneficiation and manufacturing.
 Innovative campaigns such as Ghana’s
tourism ministry’s “Year of Return” – which
urged African American travellers to “come
home” – ran between 2018 and 2019.
 The various initiatives by our friends in the
Diaspora through the narratives of the “Home-
Coming Revolution” since the beginning of the
2000 have abruptly ended at the beginning of
2020 – shattering our dream.
 According to Statistics South Africa, all
10 leading Southern African Development
Community (SADC) countries showed a
decrease in the number of tourists from 2019
to 2020. Botswana had the largest percentage
decrease of 80.6%. Zimbabwe remained the
leading SADC country in terms of tourist visits.
 Outside of SADC, Côte d’Ivoire had
the largest percentage decrease of 77.4%.
However, a comparison between 2019 and
2020 volumes indicates that the number of
tourists decreased in all 10 leading countries.
 Domestic tourists in Kenya cut their holiday
expenditures by 37.5% in 2020, amid massive
job losses and pay cuts due to the pandemic.
It is estimated that tourism jobs in the
East African region dropped by 46%, from
4.1 million to 2.2 million, according to a
new report published by the East African
Business Council. It is estimated that a total of
US$57.8 million is needed to implement the East
African tourism sector’s recovery plan.
 As we embark on new ways of doing
business and hosting the peoples of the world,
let’s draw lessons from the experiences of the
pandemic and ensure that our businesses are
more robust and agile for future sustainability.
 Soon, certainly, we will gather again like we
did before.
 It is therefore important that we are aligned
as a continent when we adopt measures to
reignite the tourism industry. This is crucial for
building inclusive recovery.
Vaccination drive
Reports have shown that tourism in countries
with a high share of vaccinated people will
rebound faster than in countries with a low
share.
 The nature of the COVID-19 pandemic
is that new variants are bound to develop as
a natural evolution of the virus. This is why,
while vaccination remains absolutely important,
non-pharmaceutical interventions such as
maintaining social distancing, wearing masks
and sanitising remain critical.
 International tourism recovery will strongly
depend on pandemic trajectories, travel
restrictions and vaccine development.
 The African Union (AU) has made great
strides to ensure the vaccines are administered
securely. The Africa Centres for Disease Control
and Prevention (Africa CDC) Consortium for
COVID-19 is a knowledge hub that brings
together vaccine developers, funders and
African organisations that conduct clinical trials
to collate information on the virus and act on
their findings.
 The AU also launched the Pan-African bio-
surveillance technology, called PanaBIOS,
which can track the spread of the Coronavirus
and connect testing centres across the
continent.
South Africa’s Tourism Recovery Plan
South Africa has always recognised tourism’s
crucial role in developing and growing an
REBUILDING THE TOURISM SECTOR POST-COVID-19
We are ready to take our fair share of the World Tourism Organisation's estimate that
tourism in Africa could more than double to 134 million tourists in 2030 as opposed
to 50 million we had in 2010.
inclusive economy. And the fact that it is listed
as one of eight interventions in its recovery plan
illustrates this point.
 The Department of Tourism has drawn up
and is implementing its Tourism Sector Recovery
Plan, which is in line with the Government’s
broader Economic Reconstruction and
Recovery Plan, with the following strategic
interventions:
•  implement norms and standards for safe
operations across the value chain to enable
safe travel and rebuild traveller confidence
•  stimulate domestic demand through target-
ed initiatives and campaigns
•  strengthen the supply-side through re-
source mobilisation and investment facili-
tation
•  support for the protection of core tourism
infrastructure and assets
•  execute a global marketing programme to
reignite international demand
• tourism regional integration
•  review the tourism policy to provide en-
hanced support for sector growth and de-
velopment.
South Africa needs to reset the tourism sector
on the continent. We hope to make immediate
gains through inter-regional and domestic travel
to sustain the sector. We are ready to take our
fair share of the World Tourism Organisation's
estimate that tourism in Africa could more
than double to 134 million tourists in 2030 as
opposed to 50 million we had in 2010. We are
gearing ourselves for that.
 In South Africa, we regard ourselves as a
desirable tourism destination, which accounts
for a substantial amount of the country’s
revenue.
 This path we are about to undertake in
reviving tourism in Africa will not be an easy
one, especially if we do not harness the energy
of our oneness, our unity of purpose and our
common dream of a destination connected and
united.
 It is a long road ahead, but the interventions
outlined here will go a long way to rebuilding the
sector.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
62 63
HOW A FILM IS FIGHTING THE ERASURE OF SOUTH AFRICAN ACTIVIST DULCIE SEPTEMBER
By Liani Maasdorp
Senior Lecturer in Screen Production and Film and Television Studies, University of Cape Town
F
ilm impact involves designing
and implementing strategies
to ensure a social justice film
reaches the right audience so
it has the best chance to bring
about the desired change.
Social change takes many forms, from
creating awareness and changing perception
to behaviour and policy change.
 South Africa, like any country, has a unique
set of characteristics that influence how films
reach audiences. That’s why it’s so important
to document and share case studies of local
impact campaigns that cater to the South
African context, audiences, challenges and
opportunities.
 With this in mind, I hosted a panel
discussion about the impact campaign of
Murder in Paris at the Encounters documentary
festival recently. The event was supported by
the University of Cape Town and Sunshine
Cinema’s Film Screening Impact Facilitator
course.
How a film is fighting the erasure of
South African activist Dulcie September
South Africa, like any country, has a unique set of characteristics that influence
how films reach audiences. That’s why it’s so important to document and share
case studies of local impact campaigns that cater to the South African context,
audiences, challenges and opportunities.
Murder in Paris tells of the 1988
assassination of Dulcie September, an anti-
apartheid activist jailed by the South African
government who later left the country. In exile,
she worked for the resistance, the African
National Congress (ANC), becoming its chief
representative in France, Switzerland and
Luxembourg.
 The fast-paced documentary reveals
the ongoing attempts by her family and
a journalist to find justice, revisiting and
interrogating the cold case. Most recently, it
shared the Best South African Documentary
Award at the Durban International Film
Festival. Director, Enver Michael Samuel,
also won the festival’s Human Rights Award.
 The panel discussion with Samuel and the
film’s impact producer, Miki Redelinghuys,
covered the film’s impact goals and some of
the tough distribution decisions they’ve had
to make to reach the right audiences to try
and bring about awareness and change.
What were the impact goals for the film?
Miki Redelinghuys: The low hanging fruit of any
impact is awareness. It’s also the first impact
goal in this campaign, but we’re calling that
“the erasure”. Secondly, a big driver is “justice
for Dulcie”. Thirdly, addressing family trauma.
So very clear, very simple impact goals … We
were guided by a quote from academics Kelly-
Eve Koopman and Rasmus Bitsch:
 “The cost of erasing Dulcie September and
others like her is not only the billions that could
have been spent on a society in dire need. It is
also the opportunity to accurately understand
the past in order to improve the future. And, of
course, justice.”
 Enver Samuel: I knew there was going to
be something strategic that needed to be in
place because it wasn’t going to be that the
broadcast stage was the be all and end all …
The documentary had to take on another life
after the broadcast, which it is actually doing at
the moment.
SOUTH AFRICAN ACTIVIST DULCIE SEPTEMBER
This erasure of Dulcie September is ongoing
… When you tell people about her generally –
if you’re not within ANC circles – the question
is: "Dulcie what? "Dulcie, who is that?" Then
when you explain, it’s: "Oh my, why didn’t I
know about this person?" So, I think we are
contributing to un-erasing the name of Dulcie
September.
 Miki Redelinghuys: Key to this process has
been building a community. Liezl Vermeulen,
the co-impact producer on this project, has
been working hard on building a community
alongside Enver, from 2018 already. Reaching
out to people, gathering names. Gradually
placing the story out there, getting people
to interact on social media, subscribing to a
newsletter. Our #RememberDulcieSeptember
campaign, to be implemented by doing
screenings and a school campaign, rolled out
in August, which was Women’s Month and also
Dulcie’s birthday month. And then “say her
name”, making Dulcie visible in public spaces;
a public art campaign; and actively driving for
key landmarks to be named in recognition of
Dulcie.
Can you tell us more about the justice for
Dulcie aspect of the campaign?
Enver Samuel: It’s become one of our pinnacle
goals. It’s 33 years later and the family are
still suffering the anguish of not knowing (who
killed Dulcie) … The Truth and Reconciliation
Commission failed them. The French courts
failed them. So, they have recently started an
initiative to get the case reopened. And I’m
pleased to say that their French lawyers have
said they’ll introduce the documentary as part
of the evidence submission to get it reopened.
How did the trauma you observed while
making the film drive the social justice
work?
Enver Samuel: When that window is open for
you as an observer, making a documentary,
you start to realise the pain and the anguish
of the families … the bodies are bent, the
language, the voice, you know. I guess that is
in some ways my driving motivation to try and
tell these stories.
 Miki Redelinghuys: That motivation
drives the third goal in the impact campaign,
#MerciDulcie (Thank you Dulcie), which is
about using the film to address family trauma,
to open dialogues … to revisit this unresolved
pain. Not that we, for one minute, think the
film can offer resolution. But, I think there’s a
certain healing in recognition and dialogue.
Why was it important to prioritise
screenings on the public broadcaster in
South Africa?
Enver Samuel: That’s where you get the
bums on seats. For me, that’s always been
the main mission. I’ve done it with the three
documentaries I’ve just made. If you’re making
these types of documentaries, the more
people that see it the better, because that’s
contributing to the un-erasure.
 So, I pushed with SABC3 to also get the
documentary shown on a significant day,
Human Rights Day … The second part (was
broadcast) one day before the 33rd anniversary
of Dulcie’s assassination. Going this way, has
borne some fruit because the documentary
made the top 15 of the audience ratings for
SABC3 (in the month it was broadcast). That
jeopardised my film festival chances, because
it can’t be entered into official competition.
So, that’s something filmmakers must keep in
mind. But, for me that wasn’t a reason to not
roll it out.
How are your distribution plans for Europe
different?
Enver Samuel: France is clamouring to watch
the documentary. I mean, Dulcie was there for
five years. If you look at the archive footage
during her funeral you would think that it was
a funeral for a rock star. Currently, we are
re-cutting the documentary for a European
audience … We arranged for a travelling
exhibition on Dulcie September’s life to come
to the Nelson Mandela Foundation (when
French President Emmanuel Macron was on
a State Visit to South Africa). The CEO took
President Macron on a tour. And … he knew
who Dulcie September was. He knew that she
had been assassinated there, and, he uttered
– for us – the immortal words: “We will look into
it.” The French lawyers are over the moon by
this.
 Miki Redelinghuys: That was a big moment
for us and we continue to build on that …
And as Enver mentioned earlier, that part of
the campaign is actually making it into the
international version of the edit as well. So, the
two are constantly connecting: the film and the
campaign itself.
Questions have been adapted and minor edits were applied to
answers for ease of reading.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
64 65
IN A WORLD FIRST, SOUTH AFRICA GRANTS PATENT TO AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  SYSTEM
By Meshandren Naidoo
PhD Fellow and Lexis Nexis Legal Content Researcher and Editor, University of KwaZulu-Natal
A
t first glance, a recently
granted South African patent
relating to a “food container
based on fractal geometry”
seems fairly mundane.
The innovation in question
involves interlocking food containers that are
easy for robots to grasp and stack.
On closer inspection, the patent is anything but
mundane. That’s because the inventor is not a
human being – it is an Artificial Intelligence (AI)
system called DABUS.
 DABUS (which stands for “device for
the autonomous bootstrapping of unified
sentience”) is an AI system created by
Stephen Thaler, a pioneer in the field of AI and
programming. The system simulates human
brainstorming and creates new inventions.
DABUS is a particular type of AI, often referred
to as “creativity machines” because they
are capable of independent and complex
functioning. This differs from everyday AI like
Siri, the “voice” of Apple’s iPhones. The patent
application listing DABUS as the inventor
In a world first, South Africa grants patent to an
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE system
Given the policy environment and the vast potential of AI, the granting of the patent
makes sense. Perhaps, this will turn out to be a strategic masterclass by the South
African office, which will lead to a much more innovative nation.
IN A WORLD FIRST, SOUTH AFRICA GRANTS PATENT TO AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  SYSTEM
was filed in patent offices around the world,
including the United States (US), Europe,
Australia and South Africa. But only South
Africa granted the patent (Australia followed
suit a few days later after a court judgment
gave the go-ahead).
 South Africa’s decision has received
widespread backlash from intellectual property
experts. Some have labelled it a mistake, or
an oversight by the patent office. However,
as a patent and AI scholar whose PhD aims
to address the gaps in patent law created by
AI inventorship, I suggest that the decision
is supported by the Government’s policy
environment in recent years. This has aimed to
increase innovation, and views technology as
a way to achieve this.
Creativity machines
Creativity machines can process and critically
analyse data, learning from it. This process is
known as machine learning. Once the machine
learning phase has occurred, the machine
is able to “autonomously” create without
human intervention. As has been seen in the
COVID-19 pandemic, as just one example, AI
is able to solve problems humans were unable
to – and also much faster than people can.
 Over the years, there have been many
kinds of creativity machines. Prior to DABUS,
Thaler built another AI, which created novel
sheet music, and which he credited with
inventing the cross-bristle toothbrush design.
He filed a patent for the cross-bristle design,
and it was granted – proving AI’s ability to
generate truly novel inventions that meet the
standards for patents. However, Thaler listed
himself, rather than the AI, as the inventor at
that time.
 When it came to the food container
invention by DABUS, Thaler, assisted by Ryan
Abbott of the University of Surrey, decided
instead to list DABUS as the rightful inventor,
as the invention was entirely devised by the
AI. This was the start of their push for AI to be
recognised as inventors the world over.
 The US Patent and Trademark Office and
the European Patent Office rejected these
applications in the formal examination phase.
They gave three reasons. First, their respective
patent laws only provide for human inventors –
not AI – as indicated by the use of pronouns
such as “him” and “her” in their text. Second,
ideas, for the purposes of patents, require the
element of “mental conception” – something of
which only a human mind is capable. Finally,
inventorship comes with rights, which AI is not
legally capable of possessing.
 Much to the surprise of the global
community, South Africa’s patent office,
the Companies and Intellectual Property
Commission, granted the patent, recognising
DABUS as an inventor. It has not yet explained
its reasons for doing so.
 This patent was published in July 2021 in
the South African Patent Journal, with major
news agencies, including The Times, reporting
on the matter.
 The granting of the DABUS patent in South
Africa has received widespread backlash from
intellectual property experts. The critics argued
that it was the incorrect decision in law, as AI
lacks the necessary legal standing to qualify
as an inventor. Many have argued that the
grant was simply an oversight on the part of
the commission, which has been known in the
past to be less than reliable. Many also saw
this as an indictment of South Africa’s patent
procedures, which currently only consist of a
formal examination step. This requires a check
box sort of evaluation: ensuring that all the
relevant forms have been submitted and are
duly completed.
 Critics feel that if South Africa instead had
a substantive search and examination system
in place, the DABUS patent application would
have been rejected.
I disagree.
Enabling policy environment
While it is possible that the commission
erred in granting the patent, South Africa’s
policy environment in recent years suggests
otherwise.
 The first relevant policy was the Intellectual
Property Policy of the Republic of South Africa
Phase I of 2018. It marked the beginning of
patent reform in the country. Since then, from
2019 to 2021, three other notable instruments
have been published: the Department of
Science and Technology’s White Paper on
Science, Technology and Innovation; the
Presidential Commission on the Fourth
Industrial Revolution; and the proposed
National Data and Cloud Policy in terms of the
Electronic Communications Act 36 of 2005.
 The core message of all these documents
is that South Africa’s government wants to
increase innovation to solve the country’s socio-
economic issues. There is clear worry about
issues such as poor innovation levels, lack
of funding and lack of suitable infrastructure,
which is necessary to really capitalise on the
Fourth Industrial Revolution.
 Given the policy environment and the
vast potential of AI, the granting of the patent
makes sense. Perhaps, this will turn out to be
a strategic masterclass by the South African
office, which will lead to a much more innovative
nation.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
66 67
CAPE TOWN
WELCOMES YOU
Cape Town is also a proud recipient of a number of
international awards and accolades. In 2018, the city
was named one of the Top 10  Surf Cities in the world by
Surfer Magazine and crowned the number one city in
Africa for business tourism events by the International
Congress and Convention Association. Cape Town has
also been voted one of the Top 10 Cities in the World for
Travellers by Lonely Planet in 2017, Skytrax voted our
airport the Best in Africa and international real estate
company Savills ranked the Cape Town amongst the
world’s Top Tech Cities in a 2017 report.
VISIT
Cape Town is a must-visit destination. Cape Point,
Groot Constantia, Kirstenbosch, Robben Island, the
Table Mountain Cableway and the V&A Waterfront are
the iconic destinations that form the core of the true
Cape Town experience, and a trip to the city will not be
complete without a visit to each Big 6 attractions. Cape
Town also has the highest number of Blue Flag beaches
in South Africa. Seven of the city’s most popular beaches
and three Cape Town marinas have been recognised for
meeting the globally-acclaimed Blue Flag standards.
Beaches awarded the prestigious status include: Bikini
Beach, Mnandi, Strandfontein, Llandudno, Camps Bay,
Clifton 4th and Silwerstroom.
Cape Town has a number of world class museums that
offer up a treasure trove to the past. A number of these
museums are located in the city centre - all within
walking distance of each other - and together offer a view
as diverse and entertaining as the city itself.
The state-of-the-art Zeitz MOCAA – recently voted the
world’s top cultural destination – is the latest addition to
the Cape Town landscape and the first major museum
in Africa dedicated to contemporary art. The museum,
housed in the historic Grain Silo at the V&A Waterfront,
comprises over 9,500 square meters (102,000 square
feet) placing it among leading contemporary art
museums worldwide.
Zeitz MOCAA is spread over nine floors, of which 6,000
square meters (65,000 square feet) is dedicated to
exhibition space. Through an entire floor dedicated to
education, the museum aims to develop a new art-loving,
museum-going audience.
VISIT, LIVE, WORK, PLAY
& INVEST IN ONE OF THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL CITIES
ON EARTH
Cape Town has been voted the world’s Best City by
readers of the UK’s Telegraph for five consecutive years,
and there’s good reason why. We rank among the world’s
top destinations to visit and have all the attributes that
appeal to people looking for a great city in which to live,
work, play and invest.
Cape Town is a proudly inclusive city, welcoming all who
can join us in our vision to create a safe, sustainable,
vibrant urban environment for generations to come.
We are national leaders in business and have a thriving
knowledge economy; our skills market is growing and
the city offers numerous opportunities for work and
investment.
Cape Town is also home to over 200 companies in
the Information Technology (IT) and software industry
employing 7 500 people. Our large retailers have
extensive distribution channels into Africa opening up
the possibility of collaboration in moving products within
the continent. Cape Town also has a booming film and
media industry. It’s a sector that has created more than
35 000 jobs, contributing about US$ 92 million to the
economy in the last 3 years.
Cape Town is home to the only Hollywood style film
studio complex in Africa. Coupled with exceptionally
skilled film crew and post-production services, our
facilities are winning awards and attracting a growing
number of productions and stars to our shores. We also
act as a gateway to Africa with several companies running
their African operations from our city. The City of Cape
Town is making sure that our infrastructure investments
support key sectors, like the tech industry. An extensive
open source fibre optic network has been installed with
plans to extend the footprint over the forthcoming years.
PLAY
Cape Town hosts a wide range of local and international
events – from concerts and community-based events
to business conferences and international sports
tournaments. The city is a creative hub with arts, heritage
and cultural sites, activities and opportunities for all. We
have a lively arts and culture scene where creativity and
heritage are explored through theatre, live music, dance,
visual arts and more. Both day and night in Cape Town
offer you exciting cultural spaces to visit and events to
be a part of. Explore galleries and museums, cultural
precincts, attend signature events and explore our top
cultural venues.
INVEST
Cape Town is South Africa’s oldest city, its second-most
populous and an important contributor to national
employment. It is the legislative capital of South
Africa, the administrative and economic centre of the
Western Cape, and Africa’s third biggest economic hub.
The Mother City produces 9.8% of South Africa’s gross
domestic product (GDP) and accounts for more than
71% of the Western Cape’s economic activity (Global
Insight, 2016). The City has a diversified economy,
and the three biggest sectors are: finance, insurance,
property and business services. Cape Town is attracting
thinkers, innovators and design led entrepreneurs who
are helping to build an ecosystem that is strong in many
aspects of the knowledge economy. The city is the leader
on the African continent in the information technology
sector, with more tech start-ups than anywhere else on
the continent.
Cape Town has been chosen as the African headquarters
of innovation by companies such as Barclay Rise and
Thomson Reuters. The city is also the home to many
of South Africa and Africa’s financial institutions and,
coupled with the national headquarters of many legal
and consultancy firms, offer all the services needed to
underpin a global drive into Africa.
One of the fastest growing sectors in Cape Town’s
economy is the business process outsourcing (BPO)
sector, with many global call centres and online retailers
like Amazon choosing to conduct their operations from
our shores.
www.capetown.gov.za/visit
www.investcapetown.com
www.capetown.travel
LIVE
Cape Town has a terrific mixture of areas to live, from
vibrant city-living to quiet, leafy residential suburbs. The
city is known for its successful property market. In recent
years Cape Town’s property values and sales transactions
have exceeded Johannesburg’s and continue to attract
international property investors. The city and surrounds
is also home to four public universities, two globally
recognised business schools and a number of trustworthy
private and public institutions. Educational institutions
situated in the city include the University of Cape Town,
University of the Western Cape and the Cape Town
University of Technology. Cape Town is also fast becoming
the most digitally connected city in Africa. The City’s
public Wi-Fi service and other digital inclusion projects
are part of a broader Digital City Strategy, which aims
to make Cape Town the most digitally connected city in
Africa. Other elements of the strategy include investment
in digital infrastructure, digital business initiatives, and a
focus on digital government.
WORK
Cape Town’s favourable lifestyle is one of the major
reasons why many of the top wealth and asset
management firms choose to base themselves here.
The city is home to an impressive group of wealth
managers, including the likes of Allan Gray, Old Mutual,
Foord, Coronation, Sanlam, Prescient and Sygnia. Most
of these companies’ staff and top executives live in
the city. Top employment sectors in Cape Town include
community and social services, the financial and trade
sectors. The financial services sector employed the largest
number of skilled individuals in 2015 (274 087) and the
manufacturing sector employed the largest number of
semi-skilled and unskilled individuals (111 213).

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
68 69
WOF PRAISED AFTER SUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION IN CANADA
WoF praised after successful
expedition in Canada
W
orking on Fire (WoF)
continues to make
strides towards
becoming a leading
agency in integrated
fire management
following its successful expedition in Manitoba,
Canada.
 Early in August 2021, 109 firefighters
and management from the Department of
Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment's
WoF programme were deployed to Manitoba
to assist provincial firefighting authorities with
wildland firefighting efforts.
 Following the successful mission, the
Minister of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment, Barbara Creecy, praised the
South Africans for their "professionalism and
high-performance standards" expressed by
Canadian authorities.
 She said the vote of confidence was
indicative of the success of the WoF
programme and its capabilities in integrated
fire management over the past 18 years.
Following the successful mission, the Minister of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment, Barbara Creecy, praised the South Africans for their "professionalism
and high-performance standards" expressed by Canadian authorities.
“This was by far one of the most successful
international deployments and indeed a
huge vote of confidence in the South African
Government’s Expanded Public Works
Programme, WoF. These young men and
women represented our country with pride and
dignity; their work ethic, professionalism and
fitness levels were highly regarded in Canada,”
Minister Creecy said.
 SAnews caught up with WoF Agency
Representative, Antoinette Jini, who was
responsible for leading the teams and
maintaining the discipline, well-being and
safety of the firefighters.
 Sharing her experience, Jini said that upon
deployment, she felt valued and trusted by the
programme for such a responsibility, which she
would forever be grateful for.
 Her responsibilities on the mission included
building a relationship between the Incident
Management Team (IMT) and South African
deployees.
 “My continuous engagement with IMT
was very critical. I joined the IMT meetings in
the mornings and evenings or at any other
point in time as the need arose. I had to
join hands in achieving the objectives of the
Incident Command (IC) and make sure the
assignments assigned to my teams were met
accordingly,” Jini said.
 Jini said that the experience she attained
back home played a critical role in assisting
their efforts to stop the wildland fires in
Manitoba.
 “Being an operational manager played a
critical role in contributing to the objectives
of the incident. I had to understand their fire
behaviour first and I would be able to play
my role. The refresher training that was done
prior to our departure from South Africa was
never in vain.
 “On arrival in Winnipeg, we went through
an orientation on camping because this time
around, teams would camp next to the fire
lines assigned to them and this helped in
teams being able to meet the set targets on
the day,” she said.
WOF PRAISED AFTER SUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION IN CANADA
“This was by far one of the most successful
international deployments and indeed a huge vote
of confidence in the South African Government’s
Expanded Public Works Programme, WoF. These
young men and women represented our country with
pride and dignity; their work ethic, professionalism and
fitness levels were highly regarded in Canada.”
Jini proudly said that South African resources
were used effectively to assist in extinguishing
the fires and teams worked independently with
little supervision from the Canadians.
 “Teams were used very effectively on
the fire lines assigned to them. We had five
divisions: Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta and
Echo. These divisions were placed in different
areas in the Cold Lake Fire Complex.
 “Each division had 20 crew members led
by one strike team leader. Each team had
an allocated pump operator and chain-saw
operators. Our teams worked independently
with very little supervision from the Canadians.
Our teams could maintain the pump machine
without delaying the operations by waiting for
the Canadians to assist. We recorded zero
injuries on the fire line,” Jini said.
 Jini applauded the professionalism on
how things were conducted, including risk
assessments, which were conducted prior to
any task.
 She described this as a proud moment
for the firefighters and everyone who was
deployed on the mission.
 “We are very proud with countless words
for accomplishing the assignment and being
trusted by the country for such objectives.
We will continue serving regardless of the
circumstances. One of the values of WoF is
adaptability and I think we did just that,” Jini
said.
 Jini expressed her gratitude to all who
played a role (from the Canadian teams, the IC,
to the kitchen staff who looked after the team)
for the consistent appreciation of the South
African team, the teamwork demonstrated and
for lessons imparted during this deployment
while maintaining focus on the objectives of
the assigned work.
SAnews.gov.za
i
Working on Fire (WoF) is an Expanded Public Works Programme aimed at providing work opportunities to young men and women. The programme
resides under, and is funded by the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment.
 Participants are recruited from marginalised communities and trained in fire awareness and education, fire prevention and fire suppression
skills. In addition, they are also trained in skills such as first aid, carpentry, cooking, health and safety and communications.
 WoF recruits and trains young men and women from across South Africa, with a strong focus on marginalised communities and people with
disabilities. There are currently more than 5 000 participants stationed at 200 bases across the country in the programme, 94% of whom are youth,
31% are women (the highest level in any comparable fire service in the world) and 3% disabled.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
70 71
African youth speak out for the
protection of our oceans
O
n 19 and 20 August
2021, the first-ever virtual
African Youth Summit
took place, with over
500 youth from across
Africa in attendance. The
summit brought together African youth from
all walks of life with prominent experts in the
field of marine conservation, representatives
of youth-led organisations, educational
institutions, artists, musicians and students.
 In the first-ever virtual event of its kind on
the continent, a youth-driven marine group
called Youth4MPAs, in partnership with
WILDOCEANS, and supported by World Surf
League PURE, The Pew Charitable Trusts and
Oceans5 launched the African Youth Summit,
focussing on unifying youth across Africa,
engaging with global marine experts and
amplifying their young voices to advocate for
protection of its oceans.
 Speakers included Karen Sack, CEO
and President of Ocean Unite and also Co-
Chair of the Ocean Risk & Resilience Action
The concurrent call-to-action discussions were testament that African youth have a
voice, which they are determined to make heard one way or the other. African youth
stood unified in the plea for increased protection of our oceans but protection tailored
for Africa and her people.
AFRICAN YOUTH SPEAK OUT FOR THE PROTECTION OF OUR OCEANS
Alliance; Dr David Obura, Founding Director of
CORDIO East Africa and International Union
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Chair for the
Coral Specialist Group, also part of the Global
Partnership for Ocean’s Blue Ribbon Panel
and steering committee of BioDISCOVERY;
Prof. Dan Laffoley, world leader on marine
protected areas (MPAs), IUCN Marine Vice
Chair for the IUCN World Commission on
Protected Areas and senior adviser on Marine
Science and Conservation in the Global Marine
and Polar Programme; Prof. Rashid Sumaila,
Canada Research Chair and University Killam
Professor at the Institute for the Oceans and
Fisheries; Prof. Mandy Lombard, Professor in
Marine Spatial Planning at the Nelson Mandela
University; and Prof. Bram Büscher, Professor
and Chair of the Sociology of Development
and Change Group at Wageningen University
and visiting Professor at the University of
Johannesburg and Stellenbosch University.
 Established in 2018, Youth4MPAs has been
instrumental in growing a voice of change for
South African oceans and its protection. MPAs
are critical because they are able to defend the
oceans’ capacity to produce oxygen, sequester
carbon and provide food and livelihoods for
billions of people. They are also important for
the future because they can protect depleted,
threatened, rare and endangered species. In
addition, MPAs generate economic benefits
such as revenue from nature tourism and
ecosystem services, making nature another
economic sector in its own right.
 South Africa has already protected 5.4%
of its waters. The National Plan committed to
protecting 10% by 2020, which has not been
achieved yet, with hopes for this milestone in
2021. This will go a long way in contributing to
the global ocean target of protecting 30% of our
oceans by 2030 (30X30). Scientific research
indicates that the effective protection of at least
30% of the global ocean is needed to reverse
adverse impacts, preserve fish populations,
increase resilience to climate change and
sustain long-term ocean health. Protecting at
least 30% of the global ocean is the minimum
to maintain a healthy and sustainably managed
ocean and achieve socio-economic goals.
AFRICAN YOUTH SPEAK OUT FOR THE PROTECTION OF OUR OCEANS
“As an active youth
movement, with the
vision of generating
youth voices that
educate and create
awareness about ocean
health, protection,
and sustainability – we
are inspired to forge
an African network
of young people that
take charge in shaping
the future of our
oceans.” said Merrisa
Naidoo, Youth4MPAs'
spokesperson.
The African Youth Summit was primarily aimed
at building ownership and stewardship by
the youth (for the youth), of the global 30x30
initiative.
 The summit provided a platform for inter-
disciplinary and intergenerational interactions
and engagements that will help build capacity
to further engage in the 30x30 message on
international platforms, and with key decision-
makers.
 “The summit reinforces the importance
of ensuring the active participation of youth
leaders as we collectively work to conserve
our blue planet,” said Masha Kalinina, senior
officer for The Pew Charitable Trusts. “Today,
more than 80 countries have joined the call
to action to protect at least 30% of our global
ocean by 2030. The support of individuals and
networks of African youth means that their
voice can build on this momentum to secure a
robust agreement for the high seas and to set
targets to conserve our marine environment
over the next decade.”
 The summit was particularly important in that
it built and expanded new and already existing
networks and relationships across Africa and
remains a legacy for future generations of
ocean advocates. It also promoted unity and
patriotism among Africa’s youth that will greatly
assist in the development of meaningful
conversations with local communities, and to
build mutually beneficial relationships between
marine ecosystems, Africa and her people.
 Themes of the summit focussed on:
•	  deciphering the science behind 30x30 to
help youth improve on their knowledge and
facilitation of meaningful discussions
•	  reconnecting humans to nature by building
stewardship and ownership of the global
ocean conservation agenda
•	  creating a unified voice for African youth by
building strong relationships and networks
•	  becoming ambassadors of change by con-
necting African youth to the ocean through
education
•	  giving African youth a space to create a
call to action for world leaders in prepara-
tion for upcoming events like COP15 and
the IUCN Congress.
“As an active youth movement, with the
vision of generating youth voices that educate
and create awareness about ocean health,
protection, and sustainability – we are inspired
to forge an African network of young people
that take charge in shaping the future of our
oceans,” said Merrisa Naidoo, Youth4MPAs'
spokesperson.
 WILDOCEANS Project Manager, Rachel
Kramer, also added that: “Young people
represent the largest population group on the
African continent. The youth have the potential
to become a formidable force if they are
equipped with the tools to engage in the ocean
conservation conversation. We believe that
engaging youth fulfils their right to participation
and ensures the continued survival of Africa’s
magnificent marine biodiversity and the
ecosystem services the ocean provides. This
is the ocean they will ultimately inherit – we all
need to do our part in better protecting it.”
 The concurrent call-to-action discussions
were testament that African youth have a voice,
which they are determined to make heard one
way or the other. African youth stood unified in
the plea for increased protection of our oceans
but protection tailored for Africa and her people.
These discussions will lead the way for African
youth involvement in key decisions for Africa’s
future of marine protection. The discussion
themes were linked to jamboard documents,
which were kept open for two weeks to allow
for continuous additions from youth. These will
then be collated into a call-to-action letter that
will later be presented to global leaders in the
spaces of ocean protection.
 The summit was filled with emotion,
inspiration, humour and passion where the
youth got to navigate through non-conventional
spaces to speak about biodiversity crises and
the importance of protecting our oceans.
 “Our goal was to bring together African
youth and create a safe space where we could
discuss issues that brought us to the edge
of our comfort zones and pushed us to think
about things in a different way,” said Kajal
Lechman, African Youth Summit Coordinator.
 Prof. Buscher highlighted the critical
importance of including youth in the processes
of managing and governing protected areas.
“Youth are very important! We need to
bring together young people to change the
discourses in South Africa and raise their
voices on conservation efforts. I also urge the
youth to tell us how they want to get involved
because they are the drivers of change.”
 The art workshop, music and film festivals
featured local (African) artists, including Umtha
Namanyange, Dr Gcina Mhlophe, Nomakhwezi
Becker, Jamila Janna and Tembisa Jordaan,
who were seeking transformational change
while creating awareness and conveying the
message of conservation through their art.

www.goodthingsguy.com / https://africanyouthsummit.com

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
72 73
Research and development are key to
resilient food systems in Africa
By Lulama Ndibongo Traub, Technical Chair, Regional Network of Agricultural Policy Research Institutes, Stellenbosch University;
Thomas Jayne, MSU Foundation Professor, Agricultural, Food and Resource Economics, Michigan State University; and
Wandile Sihlobo, Visiting Research Fellow, Wits School of Governance, University of the Witwatersrand
W
hat will it take to build
sustainable, resilient
food systems in
African countries?
This was among the
questions considered
at the 2021 United Nations (UN) Food Systems
Pre-Summit in late July. The summit, the first
of its kind this century, aimed to identify bold,
innovative actions, with measurable outcomes.
These actions are needed to achieve many of
the Sustainable Development Goals in what
the UN has dubbed the “Decade of Action”.
 African ministers of agriculture met before
the summit to discuss the continent’s common
position. Among the issues they tabled was
using agriculture to reduce poverty, particularly
for women and youth. We want to contribute
to the African common position by flagging
the importance of technical innovation and the
role of agricultural research and development
(R&D) in building the food systems the
continent needs.
 When agriculture grows, there are benefits
across the board. Its extensive linkages with
the off-farm stages of the agrifood system and
non-farm sectors expand employment and
livelihoods in the rest of the economy. High farm
production growth in sub-Saharan Africa since
2000 has contributed to high overall economic
growth and improvements in the welfare of most
Ultimately, Africa’s food system needs to produce healthy and nutritious food that
meets the standards of the global end consumer. Innovation at every level of the
food system is crucial to achieving this objective.
While it’s a necessary
condition, increased
R&D spending alone is
certainly not sufficient. It’s
also important for African
countries to produce
agricultural innovations
and technologies at all
levels of the food system.
people in the region. But, approximately 75% of
Africa’s agricultural production growth resulted
from area expansion and only 25% from yield
improvements. This is not sustainable in the
long run: 90% of Africa’s available arable land
is located in eight countries. Many of these
countries are fragile states.
 The future livelihoods of millions of land-
constrained African farmers will depend on
raising the productivity of existing farmland.
Technical innovation is key to raising yields and
productivity. This sort of innovation comes from
continuous investments in agricultural R&D
and extension systems. Examples include
higher yielding seed varieties, mechanisation,
improved soil management and conservation
practices. Profitable and efficient fertiliser use
is also critical.
Spending below target
In 2006, African leaders met in Khartoum,
Sudan, and pledged to allocate 1% of
agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) to
R&D. However, most countries in sub-Saharan
Africa have failed to achieve this target. The
average for sub-Saharan African countries is
only 0.38%.
 We examined the International Food Policy
Research Institute’s Agricultural Science and
Technology Indicators database for more
nuanced detail. It revealed that, for the latest
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ARE KEY TO RESILIENT FOOD SYSTEMS IN AFRICA
available year, only six of the 40 sub-Saharan
African countries tracked – Botswana, Cabo
Verde, Mauritius, Namibia, South Africa and
Zimbabwe – spent more than 1% of agricultural
GDP on agricultural R&D.
 As a continent, Africa has set a target
and made a political commitment. It needs
to get serious about achieving this target.
Governments must identify and address the
factors constraining their ability to achieve the
1% target. The consequence of not achieving
it includes constrained productivity and limited
transformation of Africa’s agricultural sector.
Ultimately, it also means slower progress in
reducing poverty and food insecurity.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ARE KEY TO RESILIENT FOOD SYSTEMS IN AFRICA
The future livelihoods of millions of land-constrained
African farmers will depend on raising the productivity of
existing farmland. Technical innovation is key to raising
yields and productivity. This sort of innovation comes
from continuous investments in agricultural R&D and
extension systems.
Innovation at all stages
While it’s a necessary condition, increased R&D
spending alone is certainly not sufficient. It’s
also important for African countries to produce
agricultural innovations and technologies at all
levels of the food system.
 An interesting pattern emerges when
looking at the number of published patents by
Africans in Africa across two decades: 2000 –
2009 and 2010 – 2019. In fields of technologies
with greater on-farm application, the number of
patents published increased between the two
decades.
 For example, in biotechnology and
environmental technology, the number of
patents published increased from 133 to 200
and from 197 to 212, respectively.
 However, in fields with greater technology
application in downstream levels of the food
system, the number of patents published
tended to decline between the two decades.
In food chemistry, this number fell from 216 to
190. Handling technologies saw a significant
decline in the number of patents published,
from 650 in 2000 – 2009 to 264 in 2010 – 2020.
 Ultimately, Africa’s food system needs to
produce healthy and nutritious food that meets
the standards of the global end consumer.
Innovation at every level of the food system is
crucial to achieving this objective.
 In addition, beyond the hard sciences, we
need to think differently about which disciplines
contribute to the adoption of agricultural
innovations at scale. People don’t typically
think of the social sciences and humanities
when discussing agricultural R&D. In general,
investments in these disciplines tend to be a
small share of gross domestic expenditure on
R&D. This trend needs to be reversed.
 Social scientists can achieve two important
goals in the food system. First, they can provide
relevant evidence to support decision-making.
After all, these disciplines are centred on the
study of what motivates decision-makers.
 Second, social scientists can provide
concrete evidence to policymakers on how
alternative national agricultural investments
will affect welfare. They are able to facilitate
dialogue between stakeholders to set
priorities, shape research agendas and build
coalitions of support on the way forward. For
example, they can help to create platforms or
dialogue spaces that ensure global research
institutions do not crowd out local institutions
and instead work collaboratively with them to
share knowledge.
Sustainable solutions
Agricultural R&D focussed on farm productivity
is critical. However, resilience and sustainability
of the entire food system will be enhanced by
public investments that include technologies
relevant to the downstream stages of the food
system, too.
 And in the conversation on R&D, let’s not
forget the role social scientists can play in
helping policymakers appreciate the actions
needed to achieve their national objectives.
The combination of strengthened R&D for the
food system and stronger local policy analysis
will certainly help Africa realise its “Decade of
Action”.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
74 75
AFRICA HAS A GREAT STRATEGIC PLAN: NOW IT NEEDS TO ROLL UP ITS SLEEVES AND TAKE ACTION
AFRICA has a great strategic plan:
Now it needs to roll up its sleeves and take action
By Carlos Lopes
Professor at the Nelson Mandela School of Public Governance, University of Cape Town
Now, more than ever, leaders need to lean into the strategic frameworks they
helped develop, but they also need to roll up their sleeves and work with a broad
set of stakeholders to develop practical ways to achieve their aspirations within these
frameworks.
W
hen the United
Nations (UN) started
framing its Sustainable
Development Goals
(SDGs) in 2012 –
a shared blueprint for
working towards global peace and prosperity by
2030 – Africa was the first region to submit its
list of priorities.
 The continent was quick to act as it was
in the process of finalising its Agenda 2063
framework, which sought to articulate African
aspirations for the coming decades. It was a
product of the celebrations of the 50th year of
the Organisation of African Unity, now known
as the African Union (AU). Such a symbolic
year was a cause for celebration and prompted
reflection on what kind of Africa member states
wanted to build in the next 50 years.
 As the continent battles to contain and
recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is
confronted with a similar moment of reckoning.
And the answer is the same: unify around a
shared framework for the future that provides
strategic direction for meaningful change.
 But, it can’t be all talk, no action.
 The UN’s SDGs, like the aspirations
contained in the AU’s Agenda 2063 framework,
are bold and ambitious. But both sets of
aspirations are painted with a broad brush. To
a degree, it must be that way. Each nation has
its own context, capacity and agenda, and the
finer the tip, the harder it is to find agreement
– the painting would never be completed. This
is especially true when homing in on specifics
for implementation, where leaders tend to
disagree over the minutiae.
 Take one of Agenda 2063’s flagship
projects as an example. On the face of it, the
African Continental Free Trade Agreement
(AfCFTA) is an amazing success story, and
the most important integration project in
Africa’s history. Most African countries have
signed and ratified the agreement. But, since
it was officially launched in January this year,
progress has been hampered by arguments
over appropriate dispute mechanisms, clauses
around rules of origin and intellectual property
rights.
 It’s a difficult task transitioning from general
agreement – a shared vision of the future –
to practical implementation that delivers on
development progress. But, failing to mobilise
behind a common agenda, with tangible action,
could have dire consequences.
 This is one of the reasons we can’t just leave
things to governments. Those of us interested
in advancing sustainable development in Africa
need to find ways to broaden and deepen
engagement and conversation around these
critical issues and create the space where the
diverse capacities of multiple stakeholders can
be leveraged to find innovate solutions to the
many challenges that the continent faces.
 To this end, events such as the International
Summit on SDGs in Africa, in September 2021,
AFRICA HAS A GREAT STRATEGIC PLAN: NOW IT NEEDS TO ROLL UP ITS SLEEVES AND TAKE ACTION
Those of us interested
in advancing sustainable
development in Africa
need to find ways to
broaden and deepen
engagement and
conversation around
these critical issues and
create the space where
the diverse capacities
of multiple stakeholders
can be leveraged to find
innovate solutions to the
many challenges that the
continent faces.
organised by the University of Cape Town,
played a valuable convening role. The summit
enabled countries to revisit goals and targets in
the light of effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Scholars from across the globe were able to
define a roadmap that considers recurrent
financing challenges but also the signs of a
much stronger commitment to social protection
and managing climate change.
Collaboration needs to be real and practical
The pandemic serves as a good example here.
Despite proclamations of goodwill and good
intentions towards Africa, when push comes
to shove, the behaviour of the continent’s
main partners has been selfish. It started
with personal protective equipment, then with
ventilators, and more recently with vaccines.
For example, soon after the outbreak,
countries such as the United Kingdom and the
United States introduced measures to restrict
exports of protective equipment. For its part,
the European Union remains resistant to calls
to waive vaccine-related patents.
 Africa has been here before. Millions of
people died of HIV/AIDS during 17 years
of protracted negotiations over intellectual
property rights to get a patent waiver. Many
calls by developing countries to accelerate
Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights waivers on anti-retroviral drugs to save
the lives of populations deeply affected by the
spread of HIV/AIDS were ignored until the
pharmaceutical interests shifted to ensuring
large purchases by donors of their products
about to lose their profit edge.
 Now, Africa is asking for a waiver for
COVID-19 vaccines and is facing the same
discussions.
In any event, Africa shouldn’t see relinquishing
of intellectual property rights as a silver bullet.
Materials required for manufacturing, the right
supply chains and time to build stock, all need
solving. Additionally, issues around ethics and
law need to be considered.
 Recognising this complexity, the Africa
Centres for Disease Control has launched
no fewer than three initiatives – the AU’s
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Plan for
Africa, the African Medicines Agency and the
African Vaccine Regulatory Forum – aimed
at establishing an ecosystem to enable
manufacturing of vaccines on the continent.
 All of this calls for discussion between a
wide cross-section of stakeholders to prioritise
areas of strategic focus, as well as scope
actions that will accelerate progress before
the next crisis hits. Collaboration can’t be a
chimera; it needs to be real and practical.
 But, collaboration also cannot take place in
a vacuum.
A common trial
As new COVID-19 variants spread, the
commonality of the trial we face is clear to
see. To be purely tactical and try to tackle
this disease with a narrow, temporary focus,
allowing protectionism to rear its ugly head, will
limit Africa’s capacity to address the problem
today. It will also do nothing to strengthen our
resilience for the challenges of tomorrow.
 It is here that the UN’s SDGs and AU’s
Agenda 2063 vision have a key role to play.
While their time frames – the SDGs are 2030 –
are long and their aspirations lofty, it’s exactly
these qualities that can help us to lift our heads
when times are tough; to see the big picture
and to know what we are aiming for.
Now, more than ever, leaders need to lean into
the strategic frameworks they helped develop,
but they also need to roll up their sleeves
and work with a broad set of stakeholders
to develop practical ways to achieve their
aspirations within these frameworks.
 It’s only through this kind of strategic
cooperation leading to effective implementation
that we can hope to shape the future we want
and avoid the one we don’t.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
76 77
ANALYSIS OF 2 000 GALAXIES USING THE MEERKAT RADIO TELESCOPE REVEALS FRESH INSIGHTS
Analysis of
2 000 galaxies
using the
MeerKat radio
telescope
reveals fresh
insights
By Fangxia An
Postdoctoral Researcher, Inter-University Institute for Data Intensive Astronomy and Department of Physics and Astronomy,
University of the Western Cape
MeerKAT is the most sensitive radio telescope in the
southern hemisphere until the Square Kilometre Array,
which will be the world’s largest radio telescope, is
completed.
G
alaxies – massive
collections of gas, dust,
and billions of stars
and their solar systems
– are a fundamental
component of our universe.
Understanding how they have formed and
evolved over cosmic eras remains one of the
greatest challenges of modern astronomy.
 There are a few reasons for this. First,
the number of galaxies; astronomers have
estimated that there are roughly 200 billion
galaxies in our universe. Second, the sheer
size and age of these galaxies. Their ages
range from 100 million to 10 billion years and
the size ranges from roughly 3 000 to 300 000
light years. One light year is 9.46 x 10¹² km –
clearly, then, galaxies are huge and ancient.
 However, galaxies aren’t totally mysterious.
Technology is allowing astronomers to study
and analyse them in far more detail than
was previously possible. Our new study used
observations from the powerful MeerKAT
radio telescope array, located in South
Africa, to analyse more than 2 000 galaxies.
MeerKAT is the most sensitive radio telescope
in the southern hemisphere until the Square
Kilometre Array (SKA), which will be the
world’s largest radio telescope, is completed.
 Our findings suggest that, within the
galaxies we analysed, their course of evolution
is likely accompanied by cosmic ray electrons
losing energy with time. The energy does not
– and cannot – simply vanish. Instead, as the
electrons slow down, their energy is converted
into that of the electromagnetic emissions.
These emissions, after escaping the confines
of the galaxy and traversing the cosmic
distances, are among the telltale signals
picked up by the MeerKAT.
 These findings help us better understand
the nature of these galaxies, and furthermore,
the formation and evolution of galaxies in
general – including our home galaxy, the
Milky Way, which may be undergoing a similar
process at the moment. This isn’t a process to
worry about; it’s just something scientists want
to understand better.
Combining the data
Our study was what’s called a statistical
analysis. Different astrophysical phenomena
create electromagnetic waves in different
wavelengths, including radio, visible light,
infrared, ultraviolet and x-rays. It is therefore
important to be able to combine different
observations across a broad range of spectra.
That’s what a statistical analysis allows.
 We selected 2 094 galaxies that are
active in forming stars, which means they are
energetic and young – in cosmic time-scales.
This is an ideal sample to study the way that
galaxies grow up and the key features that
affect their formation and evolution.
 The distances to these galaxies are so
great that light, the fastest messenger in the
Universe, takes roughly one to 11 billion
years to arrive from them. So, the galaxies
we observe now reflect how they used to be
roughly one to 11 billion years ago; they are at
different evolutionary stages.
 Next, we studied the fundamental
physical properties of these distant galaxies
by combining the new observations from
MeerKAT and the existing observational data
from other telescopes. The MeerKAT data
were collected over nearly 20 hours as part
of the MeerKAT International GHz Tiered
Extragalactic Exploration (MIGHTEE) project.
This seeks to observe the deep extragalactic
space to explore the cosmic evolution of
galaxies. It is one of the MeerKAT’s large
survey projects prioritised by the South African
Radio Astronomy Observatory.
Key findings
By combining the emission of light in visible,
infra-red and radio from these selected 2 094
galaxies, the study measured how massive,
how active and how bright they appear to be
at different radio frequencies, as well as some
other fundamental physical properties. Then
we connected the intensities of radio emission
with the measured physical properties of these
galaxies.
 The difference between the radio emissions
at different radio frequencies was correlated
with the mass of the galaxies. On average,
the most massive galaxies show the largest
difference of radio emission intensity at
different radio frequencies. On average, we
find that the more massive a galaxy is, the
larger such a difference tends to be.
 Further quantitative analysis shows that
this statistical trend is consistent with the
radio emission from cosmic ray electrons
that are gradually slowing down – a process
that accompanies these galaxies throughout
different stages of evolution.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
10028068 BSA JSE Quarterly 275X210_02.indd   1
Try South Africa. On a continent that is
considered the world’s future for the next 20
years in terms of growth and demand, South
Africa delivers world-class infrastructure and
a sophisticated business environment. Come
to Africa and choose the country that has
been voted the top investment destination
in Africa. Choose South Africa.
Go to www.brandsouthafrica.com
TOKYO, BERLIN
OR SHANGHAI?c  Gautrain Management Agency
Brand South Africa

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
78 79
SOUTH AFRICA’S BANDIT SLAVES AND THE ROCK ART OF RESISTANCE
SOUTH AFRICA’S BANDIT SLAVES
AND THE ROCK ART OF RESISTANCE
By Sam Challis, Senior Researcher, University of the Witwatersrand (Wits); and
Brent Sinclair-Thomson, Support Staff, Wits
N
ot all South African rock art
is ancient; some dates back
to the colonial period – and
was created by runaway
slaves. It tells a remarkable
story.
 With the founding of the Cape Colony in
1652, European colonists were forbidden
from enslaving the indigenous Khoe, San and
African farmers. They had to look elsewhere
for a labour force. And so slaves, captured and
sold as property, were unwilling migrants to the
Cape, transported – at great expense – from
European colonies like Madagascar, Mauritius,
Mozambique, the East Indies (now Indonesia),
India and Sri Lanka.
 Far cheaper was the illegal trade in
indigenous slaves that grew in the borderlands
of the colony. Khoe-San people were forced
into servitude as colonists took both land and
livestock. Together with immigrant slaves, they
were the labour force for the colonial project.
 Desertion was their most common form of
rebellion. Runaway slaves escaped into the
borderlands and mounted a stiff resistance to
the colonial advance from the 1700s until the
For these runaway slaves, rock art was one of several crucial ritual observances
performed to prevent the likelihood of ever returning to a life of oppression.
mid-1800s. In most cases, the fugitives joined
forces with groups of skelm basters (mixed
outlaws), who themselves were descended
from San-, Khoe- and isiNtu-speaking Africans
(hunter-gatherers, herders and farmers).
 Thus, we find recorded examples of mixed
bandit groups hiding out in mountain rock
shelters, within striking distance of colonial
farms. Using guerrilla-style warfare, they
raided livestock and guns. In their refuge, they
made rock art images within their own belief
systems that relate to escape and retaliation.
 These sites can be reliably dated, because
they include rock art images of horses and
guns. In our most recent study of rock art in
the Eastern Cape province of South Africa,
we see that this art also provides us with the
raiders’ perspective. Our fieldwork enables us
to view something of the slave and indigenous
resistance from outside the texts of the colonial
record.
The paintings
These mountainous regions house many rock
shelters with paintings of the traditional corpus
of “San rock art” (antelope and dances) that
have become world famous. But owing to
almost 2 000 years of contact with incoming
African herders and farmers, the hunter-
gatherer art changed in appearance, if not in
the essence of its meaning. The “disconnect”
was most stark, however, during colonisation.
The artists’ societies were deeply affected,
disrupted and decimated. Where any art
continued, it was that of the mixed outlaws,
often referred to simply as “Bushmen” but who
were actually a composite of many cultural
backgrounds.
SOUTH AFRICA’S BANDIT SLAVES AND THE ROCK ART OF RESISTANCE
In the art of bandits,
images of ritual
specialists transforming
into ostriches or
baboons attest to them
drawing on the powers
of protective animals
to ensure their own
escape from former
captors or following
stock raids.
The paintings themselves are also mixed –
some brush-painted, some finger-painted
– but are united by subject matter pertaining
to spiritual beliefs concerning escape and
protective power. Certain motifs, including
baboons and ostriches, continued to be used,
but now appearing alongside motifs such
as horses and guns. This suggests some
continuity in the recognition of these animals,
mystical or otherwise, as subject matter
pertinent to people’s changed circumstances.
 Despite these changes, bandit groups,
however mixed they were, held onto, and even
highlighted, some specific traditional beliefs.
Ritual specialists
The location of one band of mixed outlaws,
in the Mankazana River Valley in today’s
Eastern Cape, comes from the record of the
1820 settler, poet and abolitionist Thomas
Pringle. During our fieldwork in this area, we
found rock paintings of horses, riders with guns
and cattle raids that can be reliably dated to
approximately when Pringle was writing.
 That diverse groups of bandits painted
depictions of cattle raids suggests that raiding
was a fundamental concern for these groups.
If we have learnt anything from the last five
decades of southern African rock art research,
it is that images are not the mere depictions
of what the artists saw around them. Rather,
they are of what ritual specialists see while
travelling through the spirit world.
 In the case of bandit groups, the ritual
specialist often performed the role of war-doctor,
who supplied traditional medicines to ensure
protection in dangerous situations, including
cattle raids and the flight from servitude.
 It is telling that these images also include
motifs relating to protection during raids as can
be seen in the appearance of certain animals,
especially baboons and ostriches.
Baboons are associated with protection across
Khoe-San and African farmer society. The
|Xam San people of the 1800s claimed that
the baboon chewed a stick of so-/oa, a root
medicine which would alert the user (animal
or human) to approaching danger and keep
it safe. Among the Xhosa there is a cognate
belief in uMabophe – arguably the same root
medicine. Like so-/oa, uMabophe was supplied
by ritual specialists to those who wished to
exert supernatural influence over projectile
weapons, including turning “bullets to water”.
Protective animals
Many of these images are painted with a fine-
line, unshaded technique. But, there are also
images that are finger-painted in black or bright
orange pigment, which have a distinctly Khoe-
speaker inflection. In technique, they strongly
resemble the art of the Korana raiders, to the
north of the colony, who were known to take in
runaway slaves.
 Further into the hinterland, as if to mark the
fighting retreat of bandit groups as the colonial
frontier expanded, we discovered rock shelters
in the Stormberg and Zuurberg that exhibit
yet more features of an indigenous resistance
idiom. In one, are images of people with horses
and guns, as well as baboons and ostriches.
 The ostrich was recognised by Khoe-
San groups as particularly adept at escaping
danger. It could outrun most predators and
leap over hunters’ nets. Khoe-San would, and
still do, tie the tendons from ostrich legs to their
own legs to combat fatigue. Ostrich eggshell
was recognised as a medicine that could be
ground and consumed as a fortifying tonic. In
the art of bandits, images of ritual specialists
transforming into ostriches or baboons attest
to them drawing on the powers of protective
animals to ensure their own escape from
former captors or following stock raids.
The bandit’s view
Although never officially recognised as slaves,
the Khoe-San were uprooted from their land
and lifeways by European settlers and forced
into bondage. This brought them into contact
with immigrant slaves, alongside whom they
often escaped. In defiance, they raided their
former captors and other settlers and in rocky
hideouts they painted their concerns.
 The rock art of bandit groups is bound
up with beliefs in the ability to call upon the
protection of the supernatural. Baboons and
ostriches, painted with images of livestock
and people on horseback with firearms, were
heralded for their associated powers pertaining
to escape and protection while raiding.
 For these runaway slaves, rock art was one
of several crucial ritual observances performed
to prevent the likelihood of ever returning to a
life of oppression.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
80 81
THE FIRST-EVER DICTIONARY OF SOUTH AFRICA’S KAAPS LANGUAGE HAS LAUNCHED – WHY IT MATTERS
The first-ever dictionary of South Africa’s
Kaaps language has launched – why it matters
By Adam Haupt, University of Cape Town
I
t’s been in existence since the 1500s but
the Kaaps language, synonymous with
Cape Town in South Africa, has never
had a dictionary until now. The Trilingual
Dictionary of Kaaps has been launched by
a collective of academic and community
stakeholders – the Centre for Multilingualism
and Diversities Research at the University of
the Western Cape along with the hip hop-driven
community NGO Heal the Hood Project. The
dictionary – in Kaaps, English and Afrikaans
– holds the promise of being a powerful
democratic resource. Adam Haupt, Director of
the Centre for Film and Media Studies at the
University of Cape Town, is involved in the
project and tells us more.
What is Kaaps and who uses the language?
Kaaps or Afrikaaps is a language created
in settler colonial South Africa, developed
by the 1500s. It took shape as a language
during encounters between indigenous African
(Khoi and San), South-East Asian, Dutch,
Portuguese and English people. It could be
argued that Kaaps predates the emergence
of an early form of Kaaps-Hollands (the South
A Kaaps dictionary will validate it as a language in its own right. And it will validate the
identities of the people who speak it. It will also assist in making visible the diverse
cultural, linguistic, geographical and historical tributaries that contributed to the
evolution of this language.
African variety of Dutch that would help shape
Afrikaans). Traders and sailors would have
passed through this region well before formal
colonisation commenced. Also consider
migration and movement on the African
continent itself. Every intercultural engagement
would have created an opportunity for linguistic
exchange and the negotiation of new meaning.
 Today, Kaaps is most commonly used by
largely working class speakers on the Cape
Flats, an area in Cape Town where many
disenfranchised people were forcibly moved
by the apartheid government. It’s used across
all online and offline contexts of socialisation,
learning, commerce, politics and religion.
And, because of language contact and the
temporary and seasonal migration of speakers
from the Western Cape, it is written and spoken
across South Africa and beyond its borders.
 It is important to acknowledge the agency
of people from the global South in developing
Kaaps – for example, the language was first
taught in madrassahs (Islamic schools) and was
written in Arabic script. This acknowledgement
is imperative especially because Afrikaner
nationalists appropriated Kaaps in later years.
How did the dictionary come about?
The dictionary project, which is still in its launch
phase, is the result of ongoing collaborative
work between a few key people. You might
say it’s one outcome of our interest in hip hop
art, activism and education. We are drawn to
hip hop’s desire to validate black modes of
speech. In a sense, this is what a dictionary
will do for Kaaps.
 Quentin Williams, a sociolinguist, leads
the project. Emile Jansen, Tanswell Jansen
and Shaquile Southgate serve on the editorial
board on behalf of Heal the Hood Project,
which is an NGO that employs hip hop
education in youth development initiatives.
Emile also worked with hip hop and theatre
practitioners on a production called Afrikaaps,
which affirmed Kaaps and narrated some
of its history. Anthropologist H Samy Alim is
the founding director of the Centre for Race,
Ethnicity and Language at Stanford University
and has assisted in funding the dictionary, with
the Western Cape’s Department of Cultural
Affairs and Sport.
 We’re in the process of training the
core editorial board in the scientific area of
lexicography, translation and transcription. This
includes the archiving of the initial, structured
corpus for the dictionary. We will write down
definitions and determine meanings of old
and new Kaaps words. This process will be
subjected to a rigorous review and editing
and stylistic process of the Kaaps words we
will enter in the dictionary. The entries will
include their history of origin, use and uptake.
There will also be a translation from standard
Afrikaans and English.
Who will use the dictionary?
It will be a resource for its speakers and valuable
to educators, students and researchers. It
will impact the ways in which institutions, as
loci of power, engage speakers of Kaaps. It
would also be useful to journalists, publishers
and editors keen to learn more about how to
engage Kaaps speakers.
 A Kaaps dictionary will validate it as a
language in its own right. And it will validate
the identities of the people who speak it. It
will also assist in making visible the diverse
cultural, linguistic, geographical and historical
tributaries that contributed to the evolution of
this language.
Kaaps was relegated to a slang status of
Afrikaans?
Acknowledgement of Kaaps is imperative
especially because Afrikaner nationalists
appropriated Kaaps in order to create the
dominant version of the language in the form
of Afrikaans. A “suiwer” or “pure” version,
claiming a strong Dutch influence, Afrikaans
was formally recognised as an official language
of South Africa in 1925. This was part of the
efforts to construct white Afrikaner identity,
which shaped apartheid based on a belief in
white supremacy.
For example, think about the Kaaps tradition
of koesiesters – fried dough confectionery
– which was appropriated (taken without
acknowledgement) and the treats were named
koeksisters by white Afrikaners. They were
claimed as a white Afrikaner tradition. The
appropriation of Kaaps reveals a great deal
about the extent to which race is socially
and politically constructed. As I have said
elsewhere, cultural appropriation is both an
expression of unequal relations of power and
is enabled by them.
 When people think about Kaaps, they
often think about it as “mixed” or “impure”
(“onsuiwer”). This relates to the ways in which
they think about "racial" identity. They often
think about coloured identity as “mixed”, which
implies that black and white identities are
“pure” and bounded; that they only become
“mixed” in “inter-racial” sexual encounters. This
mode of thinking is biologically essentialist.
 Of course, geneticists now know that there
is not sufficient genetic variation between
the "races" to justify biologically essentialist
understandings. Enter cultural racism to
reinforce the concept of "race". It polices
culture and insists on standard language
varieties by denigrating often black modes of
speech as “slang” or marginal dialects.
Can a dictionary help overturn stereotypes?
Visibility and the politics of representation are
key challenges for speakers of Kaaps – be it
in the media, which has done a great job of
lampooning and stereotyping speakers of
Kaaps – or in these speakers’ engagement
with governmental and educational institutions.
If Kaaps is not recognised as a bona fide
language, you will continue to see classroom
scenarios where schoolkids are told explicitly
that the way in which they speak is not
"respectable" and will not guarantee them
success in their pursuit of careers.
 This dictionary project, much like ones for
other South African languages like isiXhosa,
isiZulu or Sesotho, can be a great democratic
resource for developing understanding in a
country that continues to be racially divided
and unequal.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
It is important to
acknowledge the
agency of people from
the global South in
developing Kaaps – for
example, the language
was first taught in
madrassahs (Islamic
schools) and was
written in Arabic script.
This acknowledgement
is imperative especially
because Afrikaner
nationalists appropriated
Kaaps in later years.
THE FIRST-EVER DICTIONARY OF SOUTH AFRICA’S KAAPS LANGUAGE

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
82 83
Pretoria is one of South Africa’s three capital cities, serving as the seat of the executive branch of government, and as host to all foreign embassies
to South Africa. The city straddles the Apies River and extends eastward into the foothills of the Magaliesberg mountains. Pretoria is informally
known as “the Jacaranda City”', for its beautiful purple lined streets when the jacaranda trees are in full bloom.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
84 85
S
outh Africa competed at the
2020 Summer Paralympics in
Tokyo, Japan, from 24 August
to 5 September 2021. The
team of 34 athletes flew
the South African flag high,
bringing home seven medals.
 Except for one gold medal in cycling, all
the team’s medals, four gold, one silver and
two bronze, were won in athletics. Three
African and three world records were also set
in athletics.
 The very first gold of the sporting event
was earned by Anruné Weyers and the
second by Ntando Mahlangu.
 Weyers won her gold in the women’s
400m (T47) final. She won in a time of 56.05,
cruising ahead of Venezuela’s Lisbeli Vera
Andrade in second (57.32).
 Mahlangu took gold in the long jump T63
final and set a new world record with a jump of
7.17m, edging out German Leon Schaefer’s
7.12.
International Paralympic Committee Chief, Andrew Parsons, declared the Games
closed on a cool night in the Olympic Stadium, saying they had "not just been
historic, they've been fantastic".
SA Paralympians inspire the nation
The third medal earned by Team South
Africa, was by long-distance runner Louzanne
Coetzee and her guide Erasmus Badenhorst.
Coetzee earned the silver in the 1500m final
(T11). To earn her place in the race, Coetzee
beat her personal best of 4:49.24. She then
went on to set the new African record for the
1500m with a time of 4:40.96.
 Pieter du Preez won the gold medal in
the men’s H1 cycling time trial on Tuesday,
31 August.
 Earlier, the race almost ended in disaster
for Du Preez after another competitor swerved
in front of him.
 The famous track, nearly two hours outside
of Tokyo, is known in motorsport as a fast track,
and hosted the Japanese Grand Prix until
2009. It also has one of the longest straights in
motorsport, at 1.475 km.
 Sheryl James won bronze in the women’s
400m T37 final on Tuesday, 31 August, at the
Olympic Stadium. James won the country’s
fifth medal at the Tokyo Paralympics and the
first bronze of the Games. Running in lane six,
the 35-year-old crossed the finish line third in a
wet and rainy Tokyo, running a personal best of
1:03.82.
 On Friday, 3 September, Mahlangu stormed
down the home straight to grab his second
gold medal of the Tokyo Paralympics in the
men’s 200m T61 final in 23.59 seconds.
 Louzanne Coetzee applied the finishing
touches to Team SA’s campaign at the Tokyo
2020 Paralympics when she surged to the
bronze medal in the women’s marathon (T12)
on an overcast morning in the Japanese capital
on Sunday, 5 September 2021.
 International Paralympic Committee Chief,
Andrew Parsons, declared the Games closed
on a cool night in the Olympic Stadium, saying
they had “not just been historic, they’ve been
fantastic”.
 Parsons said the Games had “opened the
door”, and it was “time for us all to play our part
to break down the barriers”.
 “During our carnival of sport, we have
celebrated difference, exhibited the best of
SA PARALYMPIANS INSPIRE THE NATION
Except for one gold medal in cycling, all the team's
medals, four gold, one silver and two bronze, were won
in athletics. Three African and three world records were
also set in athletics.
humanity and shown unity in diversity,” he said.
South Africans warmly congratulated their
Paralympic team upon their return from Japan,
giving them a heroes’ welcome. The Minister of
Sports, Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, said:
 “Today, we welcomed the #TeamSA
Paralympians at OR Tambo International
Airport and expressed our gratitude to them for
flying the South African flag high. I was pleased
to see the well-deserved heroes' welcome
they enjoyed from supporters who came from
various parts of the country.”
 Team South Africa said: “Thank you South
Africa for our heroes welcome today. We
are in awe! 🙏☺ #TeamSA #Paralympics
#BringingBackUbuntu.”
 Mahlangu – who scooped two gold medals
– addressed a delighted crowd. He said in the
past three or so weeks in Japan, he and his
teammates “grew together and we’ve become
one”.
 He said for him, the Paralympic Games
became “not about Ntando Mahlangu
anymore. I was running for the nation. Even in
my long jump – I gave it my best. And then on
the last jump – I was not jumping for myself
anymore. I was jumping for the nation.”
 He said it was an honour to see how happy
his achievements had made people, and he
hoped he had restored Ubuntu in South Africa.
“I think that was the whole idea for myself –
going to Tokyo – was to inspire the youth and
people of SA. I think anything is possible. We
just have to believe in ourselves as a country.
I really hope that I get to bring back Ubuntu
in SA.”
 Weyers, who won the country’s first gold
medal at the Paralympics said: “I’m really proud
to be part of Team SA and really honoured that
the logo in Tokyo was 'United by Emotions' …
and it definitely was united by emotions.”
 She said “every single member of this team
gave everything while they were on the track”
and that it had been a “proud moment to see
them do the best they can”.
i
Sports, Arts and Culture Minister, Nathi Mthethwa, announced the following financial incentives for medal-winning Tokyo Games 2020 Paralympic
and Olympic athletes and their coaches:
•  gold medal winners would be rewarded with R450 000 with their coach earning R120 000
•  silver medal winners would be rewarded with R220 000 with their coach earning R70 000
•  bronze medal winners would be rewarded with R100 000 with their coach winning R30 000
•  world record-breaking feats would earn athletes R180 000.
“We are guided by our core values of an athlete-centred and excellence-driven sports system. Our aim is to provide incentives and to applaud
individual athletes and teams who continue to make our nation proud by displaying exceptional performance and attaining remarkable results.
 “Rewarding of excellence, especially every four years with the primary focus on the Olympics, has been a permanent feature on our sporting
calendar,” Minister Mthethwa said.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
86 87
THE MAN BEHIND THE BLADES UPLIFTING OUR YOUTH
The man behind the blades uplifting our youth
What these Paralympians are doing – and what people like Johan Snyders are doing –
is much bigger than running faster, and jumping further and higher. They’re empowering
a whole new generation of believers and giving hope to millions.
By Gary Lemke
www.teamsa.co.za
M
ore than ever, in this
age of COVID-19 and
the wearing of face
masks, the eyes have
become the window to
the soul. And standing
there in the mixed zone inside the Tokyo
Olympic Stadium, at 9:30pm on Saturday
night, 28 August 2021, was Johan Snyders.
The compulsory mask hid most of his face. But
not the eyes. They were watery and red but the
crumpled skin next to them told a happy story.
 A few metres away, moving involuntarily
from side to side on his competition blades was
Ntando Mahlangu. New world-record holder in
his men’s long jump classification (T61), after a
final leap of 7.17m had taken him from bronze
to gold, the 19-year-old was regaling the
international media with his story.
 And what a story it is, of a young boy at the
age of 10 who had been in a wheelchair from
his early days, but who had wanted to walk so
desperately that he agreed to have both his
legs amputated through the knees and who
was now a Paralympic champion. He is on
a path to greatness, also winning gold in the
200m final on Friday, 3 September 2021.
 Snyders has been integral to Mahlangu’s
progression and he was there when the young
boy had his legs amputated.
“I met Ntando just before the 2012 London
Paralympics. I did an assessment on him when
I came back from London and we fitted him
with a set of blades. He’s got a set of standard
blades that you see him walking around on
and is extremely mobile. He’s now at Afrikaans
Hoër Seunskool and is currently studying for
Matric exams. He loves his sport and plays
football as well. He did play a bit of rugby, but
he’s too rough for his friends. So, he plays
soccer with them.
 “You have seen how mobile he is; going up
and down stairs is no problem to him at all.
 “The difference between him and some of
the double amputees in the Paralympic Village
is that Ntando just doesn’t have any fear. And
that confidence comes from wearing blades.
He doesn’t wear shoes, and it might be that
the fact he’s so comfortable in standard blades
gives him an advantage on some of his rivals.
 “He’s totally in sync with blades and has the
‘normal’ ability to quickly change speed. That’s
the secret.
 “We fit all the kids at home with blades, and
all the jumping kids wear blades.”
 By now, you will have the picture: Snyders is
the “Blades Doctor” as much as other athletes
have been dubbed “Blade Runners” or “Blade
Jumpers”.
 When asked to explain what his profession
is, he does so in layman’s terms, and in doing
so, probably undersells himself. Then again,
once one starts to dig underneath the exterior
of this passionate Afrikaner from Pretoria, you
find that he puts others before him and has a
heart of pure gold.
 “I’m a professional orthotist,” he says.
I probably look puzzled, perhaps there’s a
frown he can see above my own mask. “That
entails two sides – orthotics bracing and
prosthetics [artificial limbs]. I’m actually fond
of rehabilitation. I use sport as a tool to do
rehab for all ages, not just Paralympians. But
when you lose your legs through diabetes, an
accident or cancer, then sport is one of those
tools where people feel they are fitting in again
in society.
 “That can be bowls, or fishing – or
simply being out and about. It can even be
youngsters ‘just’ going to a beach. From a
rehab perspective that is my job, to give people
opportunities to just be as normal as possible
again.”
 Snyders, CEO of Pretoria-based Icexpress
Progressive Prosthetics, was involved with the
start-up of the Jumping Kids charity in 2009.
The vision was to provide the latest prosthetic
limb technology to child amputees in South
Africa and Africa with the help of corporate
funding.
 “Jumping Kids is about trying to give kids
opportunities to get an academic qualification.
THE MAN BEHIND THE BLADES UPLIFTING OUR YOUTH
"I believe we have inspired a whole group of double
amputees globally who would never jump because
they would be too scared. They might now think, ‘let’s
maybe jump a bit’ not only run.”
To have kids mobile, they can go to a
mainstream school, allowing kids to be equal to
other kids. That’s the real story, what Jumping
Kids is doing.
 “We have the Steve Biko Clinic in Pretoria
where we take care of youngsters. We have
a good team between the orthopedic side
and our side and the decisions we make are
good for the children. You might ask why we
fit children with blades? The answer is that
blades allow the kids to be mobile. Even in the
rural areas, they can then run in the sand, go
down to the river, scoop up water, do everyday
things.
 “You have a look around the village here
and you see how many double amputees are
in wheelchairs. I try not to encourage that with
kids. To put a kid with a disability in the sand
is a disaster. People don’t always understand
that the environment in South Africa is not
always wheelchair-friendly.”
 Mahlangu went straight into blades at the
age of 10 and his exploits as an athlete have
awoken a whole new generation. Snyders is
adamant that South Africa’s latest role model
is going to play an important part in shaping
the lives of amputees. “We have a limited time
with children to develop their big motor skills,”
says Snyders. “With boys, you can maybe get
them to have buy-in to wearing blades at 10,
11, 12 … at 13, 14. Boys are getting busy at
school and then their priorities change. They
don’t play as much any more. With girls, it’s
even younger. We have to stimulate big motor
skills development in youngsters as soon as
possible for them to be capable athletes.
 “But, not all kids will be like Ntando, or run
very fast, but all kids will then be mobile and go
to a good school. Isn’t that supposed to be our
responsibility in South Africa? To uplift? That’s
why education is so important and mobility is
integral to a good education.
 “When I met Ntando, he was in a school
for kids who were physically challenged. The
school didn’t have a Matric curriculum, so when
you’re 16 you have to leave. So, we moved
him into a primary school in our area. With his
success of Rio 2016 (silver medal in the 200m
at the age of 14), we could immediately apply
to go to a high school. The likes of Garsfontein
and Waterkloof all accepted him, but he chose
Affies, a school of over a 1 000 pupils and one
of the most well-known.
 “Ntando has changed the perspective of so
many when it comes to disabilities that when
we applied for Puseletso Mabote to go to King
Edward, there was no hesitation. We now also
have three girls at Girls’ High and two boys
at Boys’ High, both top schools, and that’s
the real success story – that kids are getting
mainstream education.”
Those expressive eyes of Snyders now have
a twinkle. We start to talk about his job, his
competitiveness. “In life, we all measure our
performance against something. An athlete will
compare times and achievements. In what I do,
one measures oneself in how one’s athletes do.
To modify a prosthesis for a cyclist is to make
it as light as possible and aerodynamic as
possible. For a leg amputee and arm amputee
track athlete, you make the prosthetic so light
so that they have the added advantage. That
your work makes the difference.
 “When it comes to the blades, it’s really
exciting. I’m quite fortunate that I have a long
background with the Ossur company. I used
to work for the Icelandic company, and while
working for them you got inspired by the
concept of providing amputees with gadgets
to allow them, to be out of the ordinary. If you
look at Ntando in the village compared to all
the other athletes, you’ll see the advantages
he has got with how comfortable and mobile he
is in his blades.”
 So, how far has Mahlangu grown in those
blades in the five years since he took silver
behind Britain’s Richard Whitehead in the
200m final at Rio 2016 at age 14?
 “The rules are stringent and clear,” Snyders
says. “They stipulate how tall he can be.
Ntando’s last check was in 2017, and he’s now
arriving at his skeletal maturity age. He’s now
not supposed to grow as much. So, we look at
the specifications when we measure him and
that’s according to his body, his build and what
would be his appropriate height. We have a bit
of leeway but he’s not much taller than he used
to be. He’s measured at 1.80m.”
 Snyders admits that after the Paralympics,
and perhaps even due to Mahlangu’s
impressive world-record leap of 7.17m in the
long jump and his gold in the 200m, that the
eyes will be on his blades. “There’s definitely
an academic side to us as a group of blades
professionals. After these Games, there will be
a few more papers that come out, where they
will look at athletes and compare them to able
bodies.
 “Ntando jumped fairly far, so there’ll be
comparison, but globally, we are a lot of
professionals who like to work together. In
the prosthetic industry, we always talk to
each other and we’re friendly, and although
it’s competitive on the track, we do share
information.”
Mahlangu’s gold medal in the long jump
came as a pleasant surprise within the Team
SA squad. “When we chatted about the jump
before, we talked about it being ‘a naughty
medal’,” Snyders says. “It was never in our
intentions to come to Tokyo and jump because
the impact on his body is so much.
 “But, you also need to occupy the time …
in the 200m, he is so dominant in that field,
we needed him to be challenged, so we
approached Neil [Cornelius] who is a very
technical long-jump coach and explained to
him the kinematics. He and Ntando did the
rest.
 “My role is just to make the leg,” Snyders
says modestly. “I need to make sure everything
is fine from a functional point of view and it was
extremely stressful for me to be in the middle
of Neil and Ntando, but the message was clear
what to do and what not to do and they were
well prepared for the long jump. We always
knew we had an outside chance for a medal
but that last jump was absolutely phenomenal.
 “Ntando has a lot of guts and we have a
close relationship. He puts a lot of trust into the
process and the results speak for themselves.
Obviously, I’m extremely proud and I’m sure
South Africa is proud. We’re now looking at
bigger things. But, I believe we have inspired
a whole group of double amputees globally
who would never jump because they would be
too scared. They might now think, ‘let’s maybe
jump a bit’ not only run.”
 The eyes start to moisten again. And
you begin to understand that what these
Paralympians are doing – and what people like
Johan Snyders are doing – is much bigger than
running faster, and jumping further and higher.
They’re empowering a whole new generation
of believers and giving hope to millions.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
88 89
PROUDLY SOUTH AFRICAN: OUR TOKYO OLYMPIC MEDALLISTS
Proudly South African:
Our Tokyo Olympic medallists
“The Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 are the Olympics Games of hope, solidarity and
peace.”
T
he 2020 Summer Olympics,
officially the Games of the
XXXII Olympiad and branded
as Tokyo 2020, was held from
23 July to 8 August 2021 in
Tokyo, Japan.
 Originally scheduled to take place from
24 July to 9 August 2020, the event was
postponed to 2021 in March 2020 as a result
of the COVID-19 pandemic, the first such
instance in the history of the Olympic Games.
It was largely held behind closed doors with
no public spectators permitted due to the
declaration of a state of emergency.
 Speaking at the closing ceremony,
International Olympic Committee President,
Thomas Bach, noted that the athletes at the
Games had given the world the “gift” of hope.
“For the first time since the pandemic began,
the entire world came together.
 “The Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 are
the Olympics Games of hope, solidarity and
peace.”
 South Africa garnered a total of three
medals – two silver, and one gold, along with a
new world record.
 Tatjana Schoenmaker, the talented
swimmer competing from South Africa,
drowned her people in joy with the grand win
of two medals and a new world record.
 In a gripping final at the Tokyo Aquatic
Centre, the 24-year-old won gold in the 200m
breaststroke, prompting elation and celebration.
She also smashed the world record. Her
achievement in the event, which came at the
end of a punishing schedule, will go down
in history as one of South Africa’s greatest
Olympic swims.
 Not only this, the young woman was
awarded the silver medal for the women’s
100m breaststroke, adding to the grandiose of
her back-to-back wins.
 Schoenmaker has flown the South African
flag high in several international competitions
and has a number of gold medals under her
belt.
 The professional athlete was born on 9 July
1997 in Johannesburg, South Africa. She grew
up in Roodepoort before moving to Pretoria.
 The athlete went to Tuks Sport High School,
from where she graduated in 2015. She then
joined the University of Pretoria to pursue a
Bachelor of Commerce degree in Financial
Science. She graduated in 2020.
featUre | PROUDLY SOUTH AFRICAN: OUR TOKYO OLYMPIC MEDALLISTS
Schoenmaker’s passion for swimming started
when she was five years old. She revealed
that she participated in the first competition at
eight years old. However, she did not make
swimming her main sport until towards the end
of her high school education.
 In 2014, the 16-year-old Grade 11 student
from Tuks Sport High school won a gold medal
in the 50m breaststroke at the second Africa
Youth Games, held in Botswana. She has
since won at various national and international
swimming competitions.
 The professional athlete won two gold
medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games.
She emerged victorious in the women’s 100m
and 200m breaststroke.
 Since coming into the limelight as one of
the best female swimmers in South Africa,
Schoenmaker has been recognised numerous
times for her swimming prowess. SwimSwan
named her the African Female Swimmer of the
Year in 2019 and 2020. She also emerged as
the Sportswoman of the Year and Sports Star
of the Year at the 2019 South African Sport
Awards.
 Semi-retired surfer Bianca Buitendag from
Victoria Bay stunned the world as she scooped
Olympic silver at the Tokyo Games.
These two women
brought immense
happiness, pride and
inspiration to their nation.
They have, indeed, given
us hope.
The 27-year-old felled the third and second
seeds on her way to the final, where she was
downed by no 1, Carissa Moore of the United
States (US), who created magic on typhoon-
driven waves at Tsurigasaki beach.
 Buitendag is only the second South African
woman in history to win an Olympic gong
outside of athletics and swimming. Kayaker
Bridgitte Hartley was the first at London 2012.
Buitendag saw off Australia’s no 33 seed,
Stephanie Gilmore, in the third round and
no 2 seed, Caroline Marks of the US, in the
semifinals.
 Buitendag had beaten Moore five times
in eight outings before, but the Olympic final
wasn’t to be.
 Buitendag spent her formative years in
Victoria Bay, a picturesque cove hidden along
the West Cape between Jeffreys Bay and
Cape Town. Her most treasured memories
are being awakened early to go explore the
surrounding coast with her father and brothers.
 She spoke only Afrikaans until she was
12 when her parents put her in an English
school. By the age of 14, she was travelling
along the South African coast to compete,
and the speed and vertical angle of attack
she was exhibiting with her tall frame made
her an immediate standout. At 19, she
finished no 2 in the Qualifying Series thanks
to two big wins in Peru and the Azores and
joined the Championship Tour in 2013.
 She finished her rookie season as the
World No 8 and did one better the following
year after runner-up finishes at Snapper and
Honolua Bay. Her father Colin, a well-known
South African surfer, was by her side the whole
way, as he had been from the beginning. In
March 2015, Buitendag’s world was shattered
when her father passed away.
 In 2019, she secured Olympic qualification
through her performances at the 2019 ISA
World Surfing Games. Following Jordy Smith’s
absence due to injury, she travelled to Tokyo
as South Africa’s sole competitor in surfing.
 These two women brought immense
happiness, pride and inspiration to their nation.
They have, indeed, given us hope.
SASCOC / www.worldsurfleague.com /
www.sowetanlive.co.za / https://briefly.co.za

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
90
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  91
A
fter what has been a very hard 18 months due to the COVID-19 pandemic and resultant alcohol bans, the South African wine industry finally has something to celebrate.
 On Monday, 20 September 2021, the world’s top 50 vineyards were revealed at the third annual World’s Best Vineyards awards and local estates clinched three spots on this prestigious list, including one in the top 10.
 The 2021 ranking features the globe’s greatest wine tourism destinations in
T
he Kruger National Park has been
named the 10th-most popular selfie
spot in the world with a winning total
of over 96 734 291 selfies shared on
social media.
 Enjoy Travel, an international car website,
asked their team to analyse social media to find
the 25 Most Popular Selfie Spots in the World.
The team compiled data from both Instagram
and TikTok to come up with the locations that
had the most selfies. Kruger National Park
made the top 10 list.
 From the Inca-built citadel of Machu Picchu
to the turquoise seas of Phi Phi Island, these
are the top spots:
•  Disneyland – Paris, France
 (Total 6 128 408 478)
Kruger National Park named 10th-most popular selfie spot in the world
•  Disney World – Florida, United States of
America (USA)
 (Total 6 014 657 716)
•  Burj Khalifa – Dubai, United Arab Emirates
 (Total 1 505 198 505)
•  Eiffel Tower – Paris, France
 (Total 419 692 059)
•  Taj Mahal – Agra, India
 (Total 348 047 464)
•  Grand Canyon – Arizona, USA
 (Total 223 880 404)
• Machu Picchu – Peru
 (Total 203 099 927)
•  London Bridge – London, England
 (Total 119 568 402)
•  St Basil’s Cathedral – Moscow, Russia
(Total 109 165 098)
•  Kruger National Park – South Africa
 (Total 96 734 291).
“The Kruger National Park is one of Africa’s
largest game reserves. It is home to a vast
array of wildlife, including the Big Five. As
you can imagine, safari holidays here are
very popular, and so too is taking selfies.
Just be sensible and abide by the park rules.
Remember, these are wild animals and should
be treated with respect. One of the best places
in Kruger National Park to get a selfie with
sleeping lions in the background is Kruger
Tablets. For an elephant selfie, head to the
N’watindlopfu River crossing.”
www.goodthingsguy.com
South African hotels, resorts and lodges clean up at the 2021 World’s Best Awards
S
outh Africa can boast that it’s
officially home to one of the globe’s
25 Best Cities and all five of Africa’s
Top City Hotels now that Travel +
Leisure magazine has announced the winners
of its annual World’s Best Awards.
Each year, the prestigious New-York-based
publication invites its readers to weigh in on
their international travel experiences by taking
part in a survey covering everything from
cruise ships and resorts to airlines and spas.
 The scores are tallied and the winners
sorted into lists.
  Here’s which lists Mzansi featured on in
2021:
·  The 25 Best Cities in the World: Cape
Town (#20).
·  The Top 100 Hotels in the World:
andBeyond Phinda Vlei Lodge (tied for
#20) and The Oyster Box (#90), both in
KwaZulu-Natal. andBeyond Ngala Safari
Lodge (tied for #71) and Lion Sands Game
Reserve (tied for #88), both in the Kruger
National Park.
·  The Top 3 Resort Hotels in Africa: The
Oyster Box, Umhlanga Rocks (#2).
·  The Top 5 Africa City Hotels: The Cape
Grace (#1), The Silo Hotel (#2), Ellerman
House (#3) and One&Only (#5), all in
Cape Town. The Saxon Hotel, Villas & Spa
(#4) in Johannesburg.
·  The Top 10 Safari Lodges in Africa:
andBeyond Phinda Vlei Lodge (#3) in
KwaZulu-Natal and andBeyond Ngala
Safari Lodge (tied for #9) in the Kruger
National Park.
·  The Top 10 Cities in Africa and the Middle
East: Cape Town (#1).
TimesLive
Flying the FLAG
Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka bags 2021 Global Goalkeeper Award
F
ormer United Nations (UN) Under-
Secretary-General and Executive
Director of UN Women, Phumzile
Mlambo-Ngcuka, has been named this
year’s recipient of the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation 2021 Global Goalkeeper Award.
The award recognises a leader
who has driven progress on a
global scale toward achieving the
Sustainable Development Goals.
 Mlambo-Ngcuka has been
honoured for fighting for gender
equality and her continued advocacy
in addressing the COVID-19
pandemic’s disproportionate impact
on women and girls.
 “By shining a light on the
pandemic’s disproportionate impact
on women and girls, Mlambo-
Ngcuka has ensured that global and local
efforts to battle COVID-19 must take into
account the acute disparities they face,” said
Melinda French-Gates, co-chair of the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation.
During her tenure as Executive Director of
UN Women, Mlambo-Ngcuka played a vital
role in helping to spearhead and deliver the
Generation Equality Forum in July 2021.
 The forum helped mobilise more than
US$40 billion (R593 billion) in commitments
from member states, the private sector,
philanthropists and civil society to drive
transformative change for women and girls
worldwide.
 As part of its annual Global Goalkeepers
campaign, the foundation also announced the
winners of three additional Global Goalkeepers
awards: Fairooz Faizah Beether from
Bangladesh, Jenifer Colpas from Colombia
and Satta Sheriff of Liberia.
 Each awardee was recognised for their
work supporting the Global Goals in their local
communities.
www.citizen.co.za
Thuso Mbedu wins TV Breakout Star Award for The Underground Railroad
T
he Underground Railroad actor
Thuso Mbedu won the award for
TV Breakout Star at the Hollywood
Critics Association TV Awards on
Sunday, 29 August 2021.
 Due to the rising number of positive
COVID-19 cases in Los Angeles, the
Hollywood Critics Association made the switch
from an in-person event to a virtual one.
 Thirty-year-old Mbedu, from Pietermaritzburg
in KwaZulu-Natal, bagged the award for her
portrayal of Cora in the Amazon Prime series,
The Underground Railroad.
 Sharing the news with her followers on
Instagram, Mbedu wrote: "The Underground
Railroad has been an amazing journey from
start to finish. I could not have asked for a
better introduction to storytelling on this side of
the world."
 "I am truly honoured. Truly. Thank you
to every single person who has walked this
journey with me. You're loved by me. Forever."
www.news24.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
92
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  93

Dr Thato Mosehle does SA proud at Miss Supranational pageant
M
edical doctor Thato Mosehle
made South Africa proud after
she was named second runner-
up for 2021 Miss Supranational
in Poland, on 21 August 2021.
 The African continent thrived and shined at
this year’s Miss Supranational pageant, after
Chanique Rabe from Namibia took home the
title and South Africa’s Mosehle made the top
three in the contest.
Mosehle was the first person in South Africa
to compete under the official Miss South Africa
organisation banner in the pageant, after she
was crowned Miss Supranational SA 2020 at
the Miss SA pageant last year.
 Mosehle, 26, from North West, represented
Mzansi against contestants from nearly 60 other
countries in the 12th edition competition that was
held in Nowy Sacz, Poland, and was one of the
front runners throughout the build-up to the finale.
The live show was aired on the Miss
Supranational Facebook and YouTube channels
and South Africans gathered to watch Mosehle,
including the reigning Miss SA, Shudufhadzo
Musida, and Miss Universe SA 2020, Natasha
Joubert.
 Speaking after the crowning, Mosehle said:
“Congratulations to Chanique, she is going to be
a fantastic title holder and I wish her everything
of the best during the coming year.”
 She added that the Miss Supranational
experience was beyond her wildest expectation,
and that she was delighted to have done so well
in the competition.
 She celebrated her win on Instagram where
she expressed gratitude to South Africa for their
support.
 “This one is for you in South Africa! Thank
you for believing in me. I hope I made you all
proud,” Mosehle said in a caption under an
image of her being crowned. She also thanked
the Miss SA organisation for their support.
Chief Executive of the Miss SA organisation,
Stephanie Weil, and Miss SA Creative Director,
Werner Wessel, were in Poland to support her.
 “Thato shone on the international stage
and we are incredibly proud of her and her
achievement in making it to the Top 3,” Weil said.
www.iol.co.za
South African woman wins World Championship of Public Speaking
S
outh Africa’s Verity Price is the
new World Champion of Public
Speaking after winning the top
spot at the Toastmasters World
Championship for 2021 on 28 August 2021.
 The championship starts within the
Toastmasters clubs worldwide. Club members
participate in speaking events and advance
up the ranks from Area, Division, District and
Region. They then work their way towards the
Toastmaster semi-finals and on to the World
Championship of Public Speaking.
 The goal is to wow the judges with a five- to
seven-minute speech and the very best person
goes on to win. Winners are catapulted into the
public speaking realm where they can go on to
build successful speaking careers.
 Price won thanks to her speech, A Great
Read. She became the fifth woman to win
this title in the last 80 years of the competition.
Friends, family and fans have been showering
her with praise for winning the championship
and raising the South African flag on the
international speaking platform.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Greg Minnaar wins 4th World Downhill Championship for South Africa
S
outh Africa's Greg Minnaar stunned
the field to win his fourth World
Downhill Championship at the
age of 39 in Val Di Sole, Italy, on
Sunday, 29 August 2021.
Minnaar last won the gold medal at downhill
mountain biking's biggest event of the year
all the way back in 2013 in his home town of
Pietermaritzburg, having also won in 2012 and
2003.
Minnaar finished ahead of France's Benoit
Coulanges and Australia’s Troy Brosnan in
third.
 Fifth-last down the hill, Minnaar had to
watch on as another four riders attempted to
beat his time and when none of them could,
the reality of another massive win sank in as
the popular Santa Cruz rider was overwhelmed
with emotion.
 "I just dropped my head and started crying,"
Minnaar said afterwards.
 "I couldn't hold back.
 "It is an incredible feeling, so overwhelming."
 Minnaar, who has been on the podium at
the World Championships 12 times over the
course of his career, is largely considered the
greatest downhill mountain biker of all time
with a record 23 World Cup career victories to
his name.
www.news24.com
Cape Town International Airport named as Africa’s best
T
he Cape Town International Airport
has once again been named Africa’s
best airport.
This aviation hub, which is situated
in the heart of the Mother City, has scooped
the top gong for the sixth consecutive year
at the 2021 Skytrax World Airport Awards,
with Durban’s King Shaka coming second.
In third place, is Johannesburg’s OR Tambo
International Airport.
 Conducted from August 2020 until July
2021, and assessing customer service and
facilities across more than 500 airports, the
annual customer survey for the passenger’s
choice awards saw numerous travellers
vote for their favourite airport based on pre-
pandemic travel experiences.
 “With many airports around the world having
seen a 70% - 80% drop in passenger numbers
during our survey period, we considered
that our 2021 awards should reflect these
conditions, and while many customers voted
for their favourite airport without visiting there
in the last year, we had a very large survey
response for airports where users have been
travelling during COVID-19,” Edward Plaisted
of Skytrax said.
 The World Airport Awards began in 1999
and are regarded as a quality benchmark for
the world airport industry, assessing customer
service and facilities across over 550 airports.
Globally, Hamad International Airport in Doha,
Qatar, was ranked as the top international
airport in the world, up from third position in
2020.
Skytrax and www.goodthingsguy.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
94
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  95

SA under 20 athletics team excells
T
he Department of Sport, Arts
and Culture joined the nation in
welcoming back the South Africa
under 20 athletics team from their
excellent performance at the Under 20 World
Athletics Championship, which was held in
Nairobi, Kenya, in August 2021.
Xhotyeni and Letlhogonolo Moleyane finished
at 38.51, followed by Jamaica (38.61) and
Poland (38.90).
 The rest of the medals were as follows:
•  Gold: Mire Reinstorf (pole vault women),
Mine De Klerk (discus women)
•  Silver: Benjamin Richardson (100m sprint),
Mine De Klerk (discus women)
•  Bronze: Kyle Rademeyer (pole vault),
Dane Roets (shot put), Matt Nortje (400m),
Sinesipho Dambile (200m).
“Congratulations to the U20 athletics team,
under the guidance of Athletics South Africa.
Our appreciation goes out to all of them for
making the nation proud and flying the South
African flag with such distinction,” the Minister
of Sports, Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa,
said upon hearing the successful story of the
U20 athletics team.
 “My appreciation as well goes out to
Athletics South Africa for ensuring that they
were able to send a tailor-made team of not
more than 50 athletes and for bringing home
nine medals, including breaking the world
record,” Minister Mthethwa said.
SAnews.gov.za
Team SA finished sixth out of 100 participating
countries after a hard-fought and thrilling
encounter across most codes, amassing nine
medals, including breaking the men’s U20
4x100m relay world record.
 The relay team comprising Benjamin
Richardson, Sinesipho Dambile, Mihlali
Trio of local wine estates named among the World’s Top 50 Vineyards
A
fter what has been a very hard
18 months due to the COVID-19
pandemic and resultant alcohol
bans, the South African wine
industry finally has something to celebrate.
 On Monday, 20 September 2021, the
world’s top 50 vineyards were revealed at the
third annual World’s Best Vineyards Awards
and local estates clinched three spots on this
prestigious list, including one in the top 10.
 The 2021 ranking features the globe’s
greatest wine tourism destinations in 16
countries and was
compiled based on
the votes of nearly 600
international wine and
travel experts.
 According to
the World’s Best
Vineyards website, the
vineyards that made
the grade are “the best
places to taste terrific
wines and learn about
winemaking and grape-growing. Many also
offer superb views, restaurants and places to
stay.”
 The Zuccardi Valle de Uco vineyard in
Argentina clinched the number one spot,
followed by others in Spain, France, Uruguay,
Chile and Italy.
 Creation came in at number 10 on the
list and was also named continent winner for
Africa.
 A wine estate that was established as
recently as 2002 by JC Martin and his wife,
Carolyn, in the Hemel-en-Aarde valley, it has
become well-known for not only its fine wines
but its delicious food and wine-pairing menus
and breathtaking grounds where visitors are
welcome to hike, cycle or admire the art on the
property.
 Delaire Graff Estate in Stellenbosch
was ranked number 30. Opened in 2009 by
Laurence Graff, the estate not only boasts
wonderful wines but a five-star hotel, two
restaurants, a spa and an art collection.
 The third local winery on the list is Klein
Constantia Winery, at number 44. Far older
than the other two local estates on the list, its
reputation spans many years, dating back to
1685 when it was owned by Simon van der
Stel, then Governor of the Cape.
 Today, its tasting studio and restaurant
dazzle visitors, with its vistas of Table Mountain
on one side and False Bay on the other.
TimesLive
Springbok sensation Aphelele Fassi signs for Roc Nation
G
lobal sports marketing agency
Roc Nation Sports added
Springbok sensation Aphelele
Fassi to their growing list of South
African talented athletes.
 The 23-year-old joins his Bok captain Siya
Kolisi and fellow internationals Cheslin Kolbe
and Sharks team-mate Sbu Nkosi.
Also on their books are Proteas white ball
captain Temba Bavuma and South Africa’s
netball skipper Bongi Msomi as well as retired
Rugby World Cup winner Tendai "Beast"
Mtawarira.
 Roc Nation Sports president, Michael
Yormark, called the partnership "a natural fit".
"Aphelele is one of the most talented young
rugby stars in South Africa and in the sport.
Partnering with him is a natural fit due to both
his rugby skills and incredible life story," said
Yormark.
 "We are looking forward to growing with him
throughout his exciting career and providing
him with the best opportunities to achieve his
rugby and personal goals."
 Fassi made his Test debut against
Georgia this winter, where he scored his first
international try playing at left wing.
 He added to that tally in his second
Springbok game against Argentina in
Gqeberha during the Rugby Championship.
 "Roc Nation Sports are a family who are
committed to professionalism, growing players
holistically and helping them make a difference
in their community," he said.
 "I was attracted to Roc Nation's capabilities,
which align to the big dreams and goals I have
for my career.
 "Given that my career is still quite young,
knowing I have the right people around me
gives me the peace of mind to focus on my
priority, which is rugby."
www.news24.com
God’s Window is getting a skywalk
T
he Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks
Agency recently held an official
sod-turning ceremony for the God’s
Window Skywalk in the Blyde River
Located at the zenith of Mpumalanga’s
Panorama Route, God’s Window offers
visitors a panoramic view of the Lowveld more
than 900 metres down into a lush indigenous
forest-clad ravine. On a clear day, you can see
as far as the Indian Ocean and Maputo. The
skywalk will be a cantilevered glass walkway
suspended off the edge of the cliff to give
visitors a 360-degree panoramic view.
 The walkway will protrude about 12 metres
out from the cliff and will be about 5 metres
wide.
 The Skywalk is designed to be a global
iconic attraction with a number of activities on-
site – the skywalk, a sky bridge, a sky swing,
a zero-gravity room and a conference and
meeting facility. The plan is for a significant part
of the activities to be run by local unemployed
youths from the area.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Canyon Nature Reserve. Once complete
in 2023, the project will allow visitors to
experience one of South Africa’s most iconic
vistas in an entirely new way.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
96
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  97

C
ape Town’s breathtaking film
locations will again get the
opportunity to be in the spotlight in
a new consolidated image library.
 From pristine beaches to bustling
cityscapes, Cape Town is home to a host of
film locations for rent, making it popular with
international location scouts.
Some of the most popular locations are found
in Cape Town’s central business district, which
has a rich architectural heritage. The greater
Western Cape also offers a wealth of diverse
natural beauty, all within a two-hour radius of
the city. Cape Town is also known for its world-
famous landmarks, including Robben Island,
Cape Town Stadium, Lion’s Head, Artscape
Cape Town launches new platform for global film industry
Theatre and the Grand Parade, to name a few.
These film locations have appeared in many
major feature films and acclaimed TV series
over the years.
 Pre-COVID, Cape Town was fast becoming
a filming hot spot and the city and surrounds
were used to film movies like Avengers: Age
of Ultron, Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, Mad Max:
Fury Road and Maze Runner: Death Cure, to
name a few.
 Featuring over 1 300 images and videos
of locations across the city, the image library
is designed to showcase the city’s amazing
locations, film studios, infrastructure and
diverse architecture. The Film Cape Town
image library is now live on filmcapetown.com.
 It has been established to assist location
scouts, location managers and international
producers to identify potential locations in the
pre-production phase.
 Additionally, independent and emerging
filmmakers can mine footage when they need
it for establishing shots of Cape Town in their
projects or use the images in promoting the city
as a competitive international film destination.
 Filmmakers will be able to download the
images and footage after registration on the
image library portal.
City of Cape Town and www.goodthingsguy.com
South African designer Lukhanyo Mdingi awarded the Karl Lagerfeld Prize, including
LVMH Mentorship
L
ukhanyo Mdingi made South Africa
proud when he was named a finalist
of the prestigious LVMH (Moët
Hennessy Louis Vuitton) Prize.
In September 2021, the Cape Town-based
designer was announced as joint winner of
the Karl Lagerfeld Prize alongside Shanghai-
based designer Rui Zhou and United States
designer Kidsuper. The prize comes with a
year’s mentorship at the LVMH Group and
€150 000 (more than R2.5 million).
 Albanian designer Nensi Dojaka took home
the top LVMH Prize for young designers.
 The jury for this year’s prize included
Virgil Abloh, Louis Vuitton men's artistic
director; Stella McCartney, British designer
and sustainability champion; and Kim Jones,
artistic director of women’s collections at
Fendi, among other industry heavyweights.
 South African designers have been ranking
high at the LVMH Prize in recent years.
Sustainable luxury designer Sindiso Khumalo
was one of eight finalists in 2020, who shared
the prize because of the cancellation of finals
due to the Coronavirus pandemic.
 In 2019, womenswear designer Thebe
Magugu became the first-ever African
designer to win the LVMH Prize, which was
the beginning for South African designers and
creatives sharing the stage with international
peers.
 Upon receiving the award at the ceremony
at the Louis Vuitton Foundation, Mdingi said,
“I’ve always believed that the power of a
collective is far greater than that of a singular
and I think that this prize is testament to that.”
www.news24.com
From South Africa to the world: First batch of updated Volkswagen Polos leaves
Kariega for export
I
n April 2021, Volkswagen presented
the latest evolutionary stage of the sixth
generation of Polo. In August 2021, came
its sportiest version: the new Polo GTI.
 The sixth-generation Volkswagen Polo has
been on sale locally since 2018, continuing the
sales success of the models before it. Come
the first quarter of 2022, an updated version
of this car will hit South African showrooms,
but international markets will soon receive the
locally produced Polo.
 Since October 1996, Volkswagen South
Africa (VWSA) has produced the Polo at its
plant in Uitenhage, now known as Kariega.
This new Polo will also be built here for both
the local and international right-hand drive
markets. In the last week of August 2021,
the first consignment of new Polos left VW's
manufacturing plant, where they will be
shipped to overseas markets from Gqerberha
(Port Elizabeth) harbour.
 Since 2018, VWSA has built more than
400 000 units of the current Polo, of which
more than 326 000 units (over 80%) were for
the export markets. VWSA says that a total of
73 439 units have been sold locally in the last
three years.
 Steffen Knapp, Head of the Volkswagen
Passenger Cars Brand, says: "The Volkswagen
Polo is the second best-selling passenger
vehicle in South Africa (behind the Polo Vivo)
and an important derivative for our brand. In
2021 alone, we have sold over 10 000 Polos in
the local market, giving Volkswagen a share of
21.8% in the A0 Hatch segment."
 Kariega is also the sole manufacturer of the
Polo GTI.
www.wheels24.com
Sandton now has Africa’s highest urban bar – with a Moët vending machine
T
he highest urban bar in Africa,
Alto234, recently opened to the
public in Sandton.
The bar is on the rooftop and 57th
floor of the tallest building in South Africa, The
Leonardo.
With seven seating areas, the bar offers a
360-degree view of Johannesburg – and
allows guests to buy 200ml bottles of Moët
from a vending machine.
 The Leonardo houses 232 luxury
apartments, eight penthouses and nine
conference areas, among other amenities.
It offers a 360-degree view over the city of
Johannesburg; west to the Magaliesberg
mountain range, north to the Voortrekker
Monument, south to the once home of Nelson
Mandela and east to the planes taking off at
OR Tambo International Airport.
 The seven seating areas include large
lounge suite spaces, dining areas and look-out
points. Alto234 also offers three gas firepits to
warm the lounge areas on cooler days.
 Furniture in the area is custom-made
to fit the various spaces and is arranged to
ensure that each space is private, while also
optimising the views from all angles.
 When it comes to champagne, the
establishment has picked Moët & Chandon as
its preferred supplier. The champagne-maker
gifted Alto234 a special edition Moët Mini
Machine as a permanent feature – delivered to
the 57th floor via helicopter.
 The Moët machine allows guests the
opportunity to order Moët Mini 200ml bottles
with golden sippers using Moët & Chandon
tokens at R345 each.
Business Insider SA

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
98
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  99
SURVEY REVEALS SOUTH AFRICA’S MOST ICONIC PRODUCTS
By Brent Lindeque
www.goodthingsguy.com
Most respondents agreed that the traditional braai was
how they enjoyed to celebrate and spend time with family
– across demographics and age groups.
Survey reveals South Africa’s most
iconic products
S
outh Africa is a country
steeped in heritage and
culture, from so many
different backgrounds.
 In the run-up to Heritage
Day on 24 September 2021,
the retailer Game sought to find out which
products were most closely tied to our heritage
as South Africans – through a consumer
survey. Respondents were asked to identify
the products they see as quintessentially
South African, and the majority of respondents
connected these products to their heritage.
 The survey found that the majority of
South Africans were using food, beauty and
household products that tied back to their
experiences as children. The reasons for using
these products versus newer ones were multi-
faceted and often hard for respondents to
articulate – usually linking back to a connection
to their roots and their childhood experiences.
 Eating together emerged as an incredibly
important way for respondents to not only
honour but also celebrate their heritage. Most
respondents agreed that the traditional braai
was how they enjoyed to celebrate and spend
time with family – across demographics and
age groups. Some respondents said they
cooked over the fire every weekend, while
some kept this practice to special occasions
SURVEY REVEALS SOUTH AFRICA’S MOST ICONIC PRODUCTS
The survey found that the majority of South Africans
were using food, beauty and household products that
tied back to their experiences as children.
only. When asked about the food products
that really present them with a taste of home,
however, the top five products were:
• Biltong
• Koo Baked Beans
• Ultra Mel Custard
• Amarula Cream Liqueur
• Nik Naks.
Also featured in the top 10 products were:
• Castle Lager Beer
• Lay’s Potato Chips
• Peppermint Crisp
• Fritos
• Flings.
On their tables, and as an accompaniment
to any meal, South Africans voted All Gold
(76%) and Aromat (71%) as their most loved
items, followed by Chakalaka (67%) and Mrs
Balls Chutney (65%). Stoney Ginger Beer
was identified as the most popular drink for
celebrating Heritage Day – interestingly, most
loved by those in the Free State and Northern
Cape – followed by Oros and Amarula Cream
Liqueur. Meanwhile, respondents from
KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, the
Free State and the North West were most likely
to enjoy traditional umqombothi as part of their
celebrations.
 Respondents were clear about the
importance of traditional products as part of
their heritage, with one female respondent
from Gauteng saying: “I use impepho and
umqombothi to connect to my ancestors.
Disregarding this tradition would make me lose
the essence of my being”.
 Other respondents said they still made use
of traditional cookware (such as a three-legged
pot or Hart pots) because that is what their
grandparents and parents did.
 Personal care brands like Ingrams, Nivea,
Dove and Ponds were linked back to nostalgia
around childhood experiences, while healthcare
items like Castor Oil, Imbola and Amabele were
identified as products that had been passed
down over generations that still formed part of
our everyday lives as South Africans.
Many respondents tied this nostalgia to the
past and to what they plan to pass on to their
own children, highlighting the importance
of their family names, recipes, tableware
and even just the tradition of spending time
together as a family on a regular basis.
 With regard to the most popular homeware
items that keep their heritage alive, respondents
identified potjie pots, Weber braais and cast-
iron pots, along with appliances like meat
and coffee grinders and a Kenwood Mixer.
Homecare items like Jik, Handy Andy, Omo
and Sunlight Soap also made the list.
 “South Africa is a country steeped in
heritage and culture, from so many different
backgrounds. It is so interesting to see people
from across the country come together to
agree on their love for these products. Our
survey respondents were passionate about
their heritage, traditions and culture, and about
the role that food and drink products play in
celebrating these,” said Katherine Madley,
Vice President of Marketing, Game.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
100
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  101
These South African resorts are some
of the best in the world
By Brent Lindeque
www.goodthingsguy.com
The Condé Nast Traveller Readers’ Choice Awards are the longest-running and most
prestigious recognition of excellence in the travel industry.
I
t’s been said that South Africa has some
of the most incredible resorts in the world,
and according to the latest Condé Nast
Traveller Readers Choice Awards, it’s not
just all talk.
 For their 34th annual Readers’ Choice
Awards survey, hundreds and thousands of
registered Condé Nast Traveller voters weighed
in on their favourite resorts in the world … and
five of them are right here in South Africa.
The Condé Nast Traveller Readers’ Choice
Awards are the longest-running and most
prestigious recognition of excellence in the
travel industry.
 “For our 34th annual Readers’ Choice
Awards survey, registered voters weighed in
on their favourite resorts around the globe. As
the world has begun to reopen and readjust,
the results reflect the kinds of properties you
longed to visit when you couldn’t travel and the
ones you returned to first once you could. More
than 800 000 of you filled out our survey, and
while we’re always curious about where you’ve
been and where you’re going, we’re especially
excited to learn about the truly memorable
places that sparked your imagination and
stayed with you when travel seemed out of
reach.”
 Here are the South African resorts that
global trotters loved most this year:
Eschewing traditional safari motifs, this
trio of private villas in South Africa’s Sabi
Sands Game Reserve is all about clean
lines and ultra-modern design: Think raw
concrete, rusted steel, statement blown-
glass chandeliers and colourful works of art,
including portraits by Loyiso Mkize. A similarly
forward-thinking approach to sustainability
means the property is equipped with solar
panels, a greywater recycling system and a
fleet of electric Land Cruiser safari vehicles.
Prowling the surrounding landscape as
stealthily as leopards, the cruisers allow guests
to get surprisingly close to the Big Five, which
are easier to encounter here than almost
anywhere else across Africa.
Number 44 – Cheetah Plains – Sabi Sands Game Reserve
THESE SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS ARE SOME OF THE BEST IN THE WORLD THESE SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS ARE SOME OF THE BEST IN THE WORLD
The Big Five is the big draw card across the
continent, but at this family-friendly lodge on
South Africa’s fifth-largest game reserve, you’ll
spot the Magnificent Seven – adding cheetah
and African wild dog (an insider favourite for
their strategic hunting abilities) as well hippo,
Number 11 – Morukuru Family – Madikwe Game Reserve (Owner’s House, River House and Farm House)
It can be hard to make the Greater Kruger
National Park – a popular destination for
safaris that cover an area the size of Wales –
feel exclusive, private and intimate. But Royal
Malewane, in the Thornybush Private Game
Number 9 – Royal Malewane – Greater Kruger National Park
rhino, prides of lions and the rest. It’s a fittingly
spectacular viewing lined up alongside the
camp’s equally spectacular accommodation:
three free-standing luxury villas, each uniquely
designed. Think lots of raw blond woods in the
Farm House; stone fireplaces and sink-into-
’em couches over at the River House; and a
staff of eight, plus an infinity pool and African
artwork at the Owner’s House). And unlike
many of the lodges across the region, WiFi
here is fast and available everywhere.
Reserve, manages to achieve that (and some
more) with just six luxury suites, two Royal
suites, and the palatial six-bedroom, private
chef-included Africa House. Twice daily game
drives are led by expert rangers far from
Kruger’s crowds, which means you’re almost
guaranteed to be able to see the Big Five
before you leave.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
102
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  103
THESE SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS ARE SOME OF THE BEST IN THE WORLD
Say you’re more of a beach bum than a safari
enthusiast – don’t worry, South Africa still has
you covered. Head to the intimate five-suite
Morukuru Family Beach Lodge or the nearby
four-bedroom Morukuru Family Ocean House,
about three hours east of Cape Town on the
shores of the Indian Ocean. There are white
sand beaches, of course, but also access to
Number 2 – Morukuru Beach Lodge  (Beach Lodge and Ocean House) – De Hoop Nature Reserve
the De Hoop Nature Reserve with its zebra
and bontebok and protected marine area.
Simply chill on the beach or by the lodge’s
pool, but we’d suggest letting Morukuru’s
friendly, attentive staff fill your day with
game drives through the reserve, mountain
biking, sandboarding, snorkelling and more.
Plan your trip during South Africa’s winter
(July to October) for prime southern white
whale watching from shore, from the lodge’s
restaurant, and even from your bed.
Number 7 – Singita Sabi Sand (Ebony Lodge, Boulders Lodge and Castleton Lodge) – Sabi Sands Game Reserve
Singita Sabi Sand includes three well-appointed
options that provide an elegant base from
which to bask in the natural beauty of one of
South Africa’s most renowned game reserves.
Singita’s founding property, Ebony Lodge, sits
surrounded by a grove of its namesake trees,
with 12 suites inspired by old explorers’ camps.
Boulders Lodge, meanwhile, was named after
the ancient rocks strewn along the banks of
the Sand River, and the 12 glass-fronted suites
have artfully pared-down interiors, featuring
fossilised tree stumps and other found objects.
Castleton Lodge occupies the ancestral home
of Singita founder, Luke Bailes. Its Cape Dutch
charm, mullioned windows, antiques, expert
safari guides and long-time family staff remain,
but the wine cellar, state-of-the-art kitchen and
full gym are all new.
THESE SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS ARE SOME OF THE BEST IN THE WORLD
Twenty-six years on, Ellerman House is still
everybody’s fantasy bolthole in Cape Town:
minutes from the best beaches and the Table
Mountain Cableway, but close enough to the
city and its dynamic food, art and design scene.
Sandwiched between Lion’s Head and the
Atlantic Ocean, the Cape Edwardian mansion
looks like a private residence from the road
Number 47 – Ellerman House – Cape Town
and that’s exactly what keeps guests coming
back. Owner Paul Harris takes enormous pride
in his country – his impressive collection of
South African art spans original works from the
turn of the last century to current contemporary
art. An informal tour of the collection with one
of the in-house art experts is a fascinating
lesson in the country’s socio-political history.
There are 7 500 bottles of rare and vintage
South African wines in the cellar, and the
indigenous plants sourced from Kirstenbosch
(Cape Town’s botanical garden) in the 1.5-acre
terraced gardens. Besides the main house,
there are two modern, minimalist private villas
built into the granite mountainside, as well as a
wine gallery and an excellent little spa.
What if you could actually visit the Garden
of Eden? And what if it was surrounded by
vineyards, historic Cape Dutch farm buildings
and a formal French-style potager garden,
where you could pick your own strawberries
and fragrant herbs? At Babylonstoren, in the
Drakenstein Valley, 33 miles northeast of
Cape Town, the mythical garden comes to
life. Founded in 1690, the 590-acre compound
Number 34 – Babylonstoren – Franschhoek Valley
is modelled on the farms that supplied the
ships making their way around the Cape of
Good Hope en route to India. The cottages
and suites are minimalist but stylish. You
won’t find a grand lobby or an obsequious
concierge here, but the staff, most of whom are
wearing T-shirts, aprons or khakis, combine a
genuine eagerness to help with a high level of
knowledge about the farm and its long history.
Stay long enough and eventually – after a
visit to the on-site bakery, the winery, the
cheesemaker, the butcher and the farm-tank-
style swimming pool – you may forget that
you’re staying at a hotel.
 The 2021 Readers’ Choice Awards are
published on Condé Nast Traveller’s website
and celebrated in the November issue of Condé
Nast Traveller US and UK print editions.
Condé Nast Traveller
Condé Nast Traveller also released the list of the best hotels in the world and South Africa took two places in this category.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
104
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  105
South African jewellery brand shines in
Las Vegas
“This dazzling collection of jewellery is demonstrative of what happens when the world’s
most creative minds stretch the boundaries of design,” said the Couture Show.
T
he Cape Town-based diamond
jeweller, Shimansky, dazzled
the City of Lights, Las Vegas, in
August 2021, scooping a first-
ever win for a South African
jewellery brand at a prestigious
international awards show.
 Shimansky was awarded the Best in Gold
Award at the international Couture Design
Show Awards 2021 in Wynn, Las Vegas.
 This is an exceptional global achievement
for Shimansky, the well-known South African
diamond jewellery brand, which has its flagship
store in the V&A Waterfront, as well as a store
located in New York.
 “As a first-time exhibitor, I am honoured
and proud to accept this award. Thank you
so much for allowing Shimansky to be a part
of the Couture Show,” said Yair Shimansky,
founder and CEO of Shimansky.
 Shimansky is known for its classic, timeless
and contemporary creations, designed to
celebrate the special moments in people’s
lives.
 The never-before-seen design, which took
home the gold was the Shimansky Infinity Ring
in 18K yellow, white and rose gold, designed to
capture precious memories and the sentiment
of everlasting love.
 The Couture Design Awards Show is known
as the world’s most exceptional curation of
designer fine jewellery and luxury timepieces.
It is regarded as the top jewellery show in the
United States of America (USA) for designers
and international brands.
 “This dazzling collection of jewellery is
demonstrative of what happens when the
world’s most creative minds stretch the
boundaries of design,” said the Couture Show.
SOUTH AFRICAN JEWELLERY BRAND SHINES IN LAS VEGAS SOUTH AFRICAN JEWELLERY BRAND SHINES IN LAS VEGAS
The Shimansky story began in 1991, when
founder and CEO, Shimansky, arrived in South
Africa after spending two years in Japan.
Shimansky started designing and crafting
jewellery, which he sold at a beachfront
flea market in South Africa for one year
before opening a small outlet in a popular
shopping mall. This led to the opening of a full
Shimansky jewellery store two years later. This
was a meaningful milestone in the Shimansky
journey.
 While Shimansky designed jewellery for
his clients, the manufacturing process was
outsourced, and he soon realised that in order
to deliver higher quality in a consistent manner,
a hands-on approach should be taken. During
a business trip to the USA in the early 1990s,
Shimansky discovered platinum, the most
precious metal of all. This sought-after metal
had only just started gaining popularity after it
was banned for the manufacturing of jewellery
during World War II. South Africa is home to
80% of the world’s platinum. It was an instant
match, which made Shimansky the South
African platinum pioneer. Today, Shimansky is
among the world’s top platinum specialists.
 The same approach has been adopted
for diamonds. In the early stages, Shimansky
bought them from diamond dealers, but
became dissatisfied with the quality of the
diamonds and their grading. Despite the many
challenges that came along, where every
mistake could cost you dearly, Shimansky
entered the world of diamond cutting and
polishing. Unique among jewellers, Shimansky
has a licence to buy rough diamonds and other
precious metals direct from South African
mines, leading to a fully integrated eco-system
with natural treasures being created under full
supervision and quality assurance.
 The Shimansky brand is respected
worldwide and has the ability to deliver
jewellery to most international destinations.
The privilege and opportunity to be among
the first to hand-select rough diamonds allow
Shimansky to choose only the best diamonds,
plus some unique and special diamonds for
investment purposes (which can be sourced in
the rough and polished for the customer).
 Shimansky was among the first to introduce
tanzanite. An African beauty, mined only in one
known place to man: along a 4-km strip on
the foothills of Mount Kilimanjaro. With over
20 years’ experience of buying and selling
tanzanite, Shimansky sources tanzanite
directly from the Maasai tribe, where until
today, they hold the right to the best-quality
tanzanite. Sold under the Ayanda Queen of
Tanzanite brand, which guarantees the best
quality Tanzanite, every Shimansky tanzanite
stone over one carat is certified according to
the Tanzanite International Standard.
 Shimansky is known for unique and clean
designs and attention to detail, and is a South
African trendsetter. The brand’s designs have
often been imitated, but never duplicated. The
true value in a Shimansky original, is in its finer
details.
 With over two decades of crafting and
creating beautiful jewellery, Shimansky
has expanded to include several jewellery
stores. Each hand-selected diamond is cut,
polished and set to perfection in Shimansky’s
workshops in Cape Town. Cape Town is also
home to Shimansky’s impressive jewellery
showroom in the Clock Tower Building at the
V&A Waterfront.
 Respected worldwide for innovative design
and superior artistry, Shimansky has become
one of the most recognised and revered
jewellery brands in South Africa. To date, it
has more than 10 jewellery design patents,
and more than five international diamond cut
patents. The signature Shimansky Millennium
Diamond Engagement Ring is the most
coveted diamond ring in South Africa, and
has become iconic in its own right. Similarly,
the classic Shimansky My Girl diamond cut is
sought-after all over the world, and was the
first internationally patented diamond cut to
originate in South Africa.
 A favourite choice among local and
international clients alike, Shimansky jewellery
has been worn by a number of celebrities,
including Charlize Theron, Christina Aguilera,
Vera Farmiga, Bill Clinton and Nelson Mandela.
www.sapeople.com / www.shimansky.co.za

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
106
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  107
By SA Tourism
F
rom the rock art of the San to
the most recent contemporary
museum in Cape Town, the
Zeitz Museum of Contemporary
Art, South Africa’s history of
art is a long and interesting
one. Often, this history is closely tied to the
political landscape, and most times reflects
that landscape.
 The Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Park
(recognised by the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation as a mixed
cultural and world heritage site) boasts the
largest group of rock paintings to be found in
sub-Saharan Africa. This can be considered
the earliest examples of visual art, with subject
matter that extends beyond the simple visual
representations of day-to-day life towards a
representation of spiritual and religious beliefs
of the San people.
 One of the oldest galleries in the country, the
Goodman Gallery, situated in Johannesburg,
was established in 1966 by Linda Givon.
It quickly became an important instrument
towards challenging the apartheid laws that
sought to segregate black and white people
through all spheres of ordinary life, including
The ar t landscape in
South Africa
arts and culture. In the early years, the gallery
presented exhibitions by black artists such
as David Koloane, Dumile Feni and Sydney
Khumalo, who went on to play an active role in
the creation and sustenance of the Federated
Union of Black Artists, established in 1978.
Its main purpose was to collaboratively work
with artists of different disciplines, particularly
around issues of ownership and distribution.
The Goodman Gallery remains a critical vessel
through which to explore art history in relation
to commerce.
 South Africa boasts a number of
homegrown exports who have gone on to
create remarkable bodies of work as well as
contribute to the global art discourse. Among
these are William Kentridge, Zanele Muholi,
Kemang Wa Lehulere, David Goldblatt,
Mmakgabo Helen Sebidi and Mary Sibande.
The country is also very proud of icons such
as Esther Mahlangu, a painter of large-scale
works with references to the Ndebele heritage,
who has exhibited and collaborated with
international artists, including Yoko Ono.
 South Africa is home to a number of world-
class institutions such as the Wits School of
Arts in Johannesburg (offering programmes in
digital art, fine art, film and television, history of
art, theatre/performance and more), Michaelis
School of Fine Art in Cape Town, and the
Market Photo Workshop in Johannesburg.
Over the years, these have been significant in
fostering a strong connection between art and
activism.
 Metropolitan cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town make up a good
part of the South African art scene, but some
smaller towns have and continue to make a
name for themselves. Among these are Parys
in the Free State and Makhanda in the Eastern
Cape. Makhanda is host town to the National
Arts Festival, an important event on South
Africa’s arts calendar. The festival originated
in 1974 and has gained a reputation as the
leading arts festival, showcasing the best art in
Africa through performances, comedy shows,
visual art exhibitions and more. As a result of
the COVID-19 pandemic, many of the activities
had to be conducted online in recent years.
 Clarens in the Free State boasts a myriad
of explorations, with a number of great
restaurants and outdoor activities. Smaller
galleries such as Addy & Hoyle Art Gallery and
the Art and Wine Gallery add to the scene.
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action issue 25  106
Despite mainstream contemporary art dominating the conversation, steps have been
taken to integrate artists on the fringe. One of these is through the Joburg Fringe, often
described as “the gutsy, independent, streetwise, annual art fair”.
A brilliant initiative to get a sense of the lay of the land is through participating in First
Thursdays, where residents and tourists alike walk the streets of Johannesburg and
Cape Town galleries, hopping from one spot to another. This is truly one of the best
ways to enjoy the art scene and all it has to offer.
Despite mainstream contemporary art
dominating the conversation, steps have
been taken to integrate artists on the fringe.
One of these is through the Joburg Fringe,
often described as “the gutsy, independent,
streetwise, annual art fair”, which runs
alongside the famous Joburg Art Fair and
congregates art lovers, collectors, galleries
and thinkers around African contemporary art.
Joburg Fringe creates a space for independent
and emerging artists to engage with curators,
collectors and the public, and takes place at
Victoria Yards in the suburb of Lorentzville, an
industrial complex turned artist hub cum urban
farming landscape, cultivating not only some of
the best art in the city but also seasonal fruit
and vegetables. Victoria Yards is also home
to a number of contemporary galleries and
print studios, including Daville Baillie Gallery,
Danger Gevaar Ingozi Studio (DGI) as well as
artist studios.
 A number of alternative art spaces
provide a platform for different narratives and
conversations. Among these are the Spaza
Art Gallery in Troyeville, a gallery dedicated
to showcasing young artists through music
performances, public art works and more.
Given the racial history of South Africa, spaces
such as these as well as Gallery MoMo,
MMArtHouse and some of the few 100%
black-owned gallery spaces are important,
especially around issues of ownership and
access.
 A brilliant initiative to get a sense of the
lay of the land is through participating in First
Thursdays, where residents and tourists alike
walk the streets of Johannesburg and Cape
Town galleries, hopping from one spot to
another. This is truly one of the best ways to
enjoy the art scene and all it has to offer.
issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  107

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
108
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  109
By Brent Lindeque
www.goodthingsguy.com
"Street art isn’t new. But, like the murals, the medium is evolving. The nature of activism is
changing. And with it, the future of freedom of expression."
THE FASCINATING CASE STUDY OF THE SALT RIVER MURALS
T
he key rule of street art is that
no wall’s design is untouchable.
If you believe you can make a
mural better, go ahead and add
your mark.
 During the recent Israel-
Palestine unrest, some local South African
street artists did exactly this. They modified
murals, done by artists during previous
International Public Arts Festivals (IPAFs), to
reflect their commentary. A tear-filled woman
the Salt River murals
The fascinating case study of
with the Palestinian flag appeared in the eye of
a woman in a headscarf with her prayer beads.
The artwork portraying green, white, black and
red tones now represent the colours of the
Palestinian flag.
 IPAF organiser and leader in transforming
spaces through urban art, NPO Baz-Art,
welcomes the evolution of the artworks, calling
it inspiring.
 “While we are a strictly apolitical and non-
religious organisation, we welcome creativity
and talent, and we know the medium of street
art is a powerful platform for activism,” says
Baz-Art co-founder, Alexandre Tilmans.
 “The murals are based in Salt River, the
site of the IPAF. We have profound respect for
this community, which we have worked closely
with for more than five years. We know this
was a cause close to some of their hearts. We
consider the recent modifications as creative
commentary on very serious, impactful events,
which is the very essence of street art.”
THE FASCINATING CASE STUDY OF THE SALT RIVER MURALS
Art as commentary
Tilmans adds that in recent times we’ve seen
many movements sweep the world, from Black
Lives Matter to climate change marches.
 “There’s an upsurge in activism, often
driven by young people. We’re seeing more
and more people use their voices to advocate
for what they believe to be right. In the case
of street art, people are using their talents
and tools to make statements. Think about
the recent ‘Mural of Marianne’ – named a
symbol of France – which was ‘defaced’ with
red tears in the recent Paris riots against the
law preventing people from posting pictures of
police on duty.
 “Street art has always been a form of
commentary – now more than ever. Art is a
great democratiser. It’s something everyone
can draw meaning from. It’s one of the best
ways to share people’s stories. Yes, this can be
polarising. It can also be unifying. It’s a means
to start – and continue – a conversation.”
While art as activism is not new, Tilmans does
wonder what the future of street art may look
like.
 “Street art follows the rule of the jungle.
Artists who believe they can do better can
adapt or modify a wall. But of course, it
would be considered ethical and professional
to speak to the original artist and get the
necessary permission. A bit like a DJ remixing
a song. I think this medium has a pivotal role
to play in empowering communities to express
their values and localise global – and national
– issues that they feel strongly about. The Salt
River murals are an ongoing dialogue. They
evolve with each new artist’s input.”
 Anthea Missy, an artist who participated in
the IPAF 2018, created the “Save our Trees,
Save us“ mural to raise awareness around
the responsibility to protect the environment
as a natural space of health and nature and
highlight the deforestation and protests in
South Africa as part of the climate crisis.
“I believe the street is a public space that
belongs to everyone. As an artist, when I
produce a mural visible to the public and
made for people to appreciate, I get to enjoy
the privilege of speaking in public in order to
create a symbol that remains in the space for
a certain amount of time and sometimes for
a while. Given the purpose of art to express
a certain time and perspective that is mainly
social, I understand that some artists may use
my works to express their opinion and add
democratic meaning,” says Missy.
 A resident from Salt River says that visitors
from all around Cape Town were amazed at
the murals in Salt River while doing the street
art walking tours at the IPAF 2021.
 “The tour guides incorporated Salt River’s
history as part of their tour’s commentary.
Given how beautiful the walls turned out and
the message which tied into this year’s theme,
‘sustainability’, I always thought the community
would appreciate the art on their homes, which
some really do,” says the resident.
The future of street art
Tilmans concludes: “Historians have found
evidence of street art dating back to the
first century BCE. with the Romans writing
messages to each other on their walls. During
the French Revolution, rebels defaced artworks
to make a statement about the country’s
hierarchical society. One side of the Berlin wall
was full of vivid pictures, the other side bare
concrete. The starkness was the statement.
Most recently, the words ‘Black Lives Matter’
were sprayed on walls around the world – an
anguished movement in memorial of George
Floyd.
 “Street art isn’t new. But, like the murals,
the medium is evolving. The nature of activism
is changing. And with it, the future of freedom
of expression. It’s an interesting question to
ask what street art will look like in another 10
to 50 years’ time. Will we be freer or less free
to express ourselves? Will there be ‘digital
defacing’ – for example, could there be a form
of ‘street crypto art’ delivered via non-fungible
tokens?
 “Street art also comes with an interesting
question of ownership. For example, Banksy’s
art was removed from the wall and sold for six
figures against the artist’s wishes. But how
much ownership of the artwork did he really
have given his canvas belonged to someone
else? Part of the journey with this art is letting
go. That includes accepting that someone else
may modify your work. Their story becomes
part of your story. It takes a certain humility to
accept that.”

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
110
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  111
T
he December holidays are
approaching, providing
an opportunity to leave
behind the big lights and
take a road trip to explore
small-town cuisine, or even
making a trip of it and spending a night or
two and exploring what else is on offer.
Here are some of South Africa’s best
small-town food stops.
Diesel and Creme, Barrydale, Western
Cape
This Barrydale treasure trove combines
quirky décor and great road-trip cuisine.
From rubber duckies lining the kitchen
pass, bicycles hanging from the ceiling
and old-time petrol pumps out front,
Diesel and Creme offers warm, fresh food
to passersby and visitors to the Karoo
Moon Motel.
 Tuck into one of their warming lamb
curries or go American with a homemade
burger. It’s worth relaxing with an ever-
popular Diesel and Crème gourmet
milkshake while you take in the views
across the Barrydale Valley before
embarking on your journey.
The Windmill, Hartbeespoort, North
West
The Windmill Restaurant has frequent
travellers coming back for more. It’s
housed inside an old giant windmill and
visitors can enjoy a Dutch-inspired lunch.
The apple pie with cream comes highly
recommended.
 After lunch, take advantage of the
Jasmyn farm stall. Here, you can shop
for farm fresh produce at a fraction of the
cost of city shops, before heading back to
the big smoke.
Oude Post Bistro, Buffeljagsrivier,
Western Cape
If you’re going anywhere near the
Western Cape, be sure to stop at Oude
Post Bistro for their delicious, freshly
roasted roosterkoeks.
 Go traditional with apricot jam and
cheese or get “fancy” with one of their
weekly new flavours. It’s the perfect touch
of “braai” on your road trip. Watch the
ladies roll and roast the buns on the hot
fires out back or peruse the deli while you
wait for your order.
Springbok Lodge, Springbok,
Northern Cape
Springbok’s very own gemstone- and
crystal-filled, number plate-lined, daisy
placemat café, Springbok Lodge, has
been at the heart of the Cape Town-
Namibian journey for more than 20 years.
In fact, a visit to Springbok just isn’t
the same without a tour of the giant
gemstones, desert roses and sparkly
crystals in the lodge’s reception area. Pop
by for a classic burger and chips, ice-cold
cold drink or road-trip snacks as you make
your way through the Namaqualand.
Great small-town foodie stops
By SA Tourism
GREAT SMALL-TOWN FOODIE STOPS
The Marmalade Cat, Darling, Western
Cape
Darling is a wonderful hub of flora,
farming, arts and culture. Wake up to
the sounds of red bishops outside your
window before strolling into the charming
town for brunch. Pop into The Marmalade
Cat for a bite to eat while enjoying their
toasted or freshly baked goods. How
do you know it’s The Marmalade Cat?
The ginger kitty outside of course! The
restaurant also offers thoughtful gifts and
knick-knacks for easy access to country
crafts.
Pickles and Things, Dullstroom,
Mpumalanga
Though you’ll find several spots in
Dullstroom dishing up trout and pancakes,
Pickles and Things, in the heart of this
town, shines for its hearty breakfasts
like the Dullies (eggs, bacon, tomato and
smoked trout fillet), gourmet sandwiches
and fantastic burgers. The coffee is
good, and in autumn and winter, log fires
(almost synonymous with Dullstroom)
keep out the chill.
The Blind Pig, Wilderness, Western
Cape
Pop in for a gin tasting at the Blind Pig
and Bootlegger Brewery. Nestled around
a bend off the N2 in Wilderness, the Blind
Pig offers 12 craft beers on tap, including
Darling Brew and Fraser Folly Pilsner. You
can also tuck into their bottled options,
including CBC Amber Weiss, Kudu Lager
and Devil’s Peak Pale Ale.
 If you’re not crazy about beer, but don’t
want to feel excluded, try the delicious
Moerkoffie Condensed Milk Stout on
tap or Everson’s Pomegranate Cider for
something quite unique. It can get busy
on long weekends so book ahead or try
your luck during the off season to enjoy
your visit at a leisurely pace, while getting
the best service away from the crowds.
Franschhoek Station Pub,
Franschhoek, Western Cape
Franschhoek may be the cuisine capital of
the Western Cape, but not everyone who
visits the town is in pursuit of a Michelin-
style meal. The Franschhoek Station Pub
is a gastropub in the heart of the village
that plays host to many a visitor looking
to keep their eye on the rugby match and
enjoy a few cold pints and a hot meal
with friends and family. Try their huge
burgers, chicken-strip baskets or waffles
for comfort eating at its best.
Clarens Brewery, Clarens, Free State
There are lots of eateries to choose
from in this Free State town, but Clarens
Brewery is a good stop for craft beer
lovers, where you can taste, drink and
buy their own brewed beer. Even if you’re
not into beer, you can tuck into platters of
German sausages, cold meats, relishes,
pickles, gherkins and olives. Their deep-
fried chips served with tomato sauce and
mayo are always worth a visit.
i
Established in 1832, the historic Pig and Whistle Inn is the cornerstone attraction of the frontier town of Bathurst and is a South African national
monument, as well as home to the oldest continuously licensed pub in the country. Only a 15-minute drive from the seaside town of Port Alfred
(along the R67 to the university town of Makhanda), a visit to the Pig and Whistle Restaurant is a lovely stop on any day out, and the inn is a perfect
spot to use as your base for exploring the area.
 The traditional inn has 10 bedrooms, all lovingly restored and furnished with tasteful antiques. The restaurant is popular among visitors and
locals, offering traditional English food and Sunday roasts, freshly baked cakes and desserts, vegetarian meals and Mediterranean favourites. The
pub’s convivial atmosphere has made it a favourite among locals and its tangible history makes it a popular watering hole for holiday-makers.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
112
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  113
This annual sculpture fair, the largest of its kind in South Africa, this year, presents over
200 works.
SOUTH AFRICA'S LARGEST SCULPTURE FAIR NOW OPEN
South Africa's largest
sculpture fair now open
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action issue 25  112
T
he fourth edition of SculptX
opened this spring,
offering visitors the unique
opportunity to view the
largest and most diverse
collection of sculptures.
 This annual sculpture fair, the largest of
its kind in South Africa, this year, presents
over 200 works. The materials they are
fashioned from vary from bronze to wood,
glass, crystal, steel, bone to stone, plant-
based resin and other media. Similarly,
the modes of expression encompassed in
this vast number of sculptures vary widely
too from figurative works, depicting the
human body, the natural world, or the built
environment to abstract works, where
form, texture and line entertain the eye.
In this way, SculptX reveals the breadths
and depths that this traditional art medium
can offer and the abundance of artistic
talent in the country that has applied
itself to this three-dimensional art form.
In short, SculptX is a celebration of all
manner of sculptural expression.
 It was established by The Melrose
Gallery in 2017 in association with
Melrose Arch, and is on view across
multiple venues from 3 September until
24 October 2021.
 “We wanted to create a platform to
promote sculpture and sculptors to those
who live, work and play in the precinct, as
well as art collectors and enthusiasts in
general,” says Craig Mark, director of The
Melrose gallery.
 The fair was also conceived in
response to the increase in bronze-
casting foundries in South Africa, which
has led to growth in the production and
interest in sculpture. This has translated
into the establishment of outdoor sculpture
parks in the country by a number of art
foundations and artists primarily working
in this medium.
 Clearly, there is a need for more
platforms for sculpture. SculptX provides
a space for artists at different levels in
their careers. Established artists – Anton
Smit, Andries Botha, Willie Bester, Pitika
Ntuli, Andre Stead and Strijdom van der
Merwe, among numerous others  – show
alongside a younger set of artists pushing
the boundaries of the medium such as
Sophie van Wyk, Nindya Bucktowar,
Mandy Johnston and Kenneth Shandu
as well as other emerging artists still
SOUTH AFRICA'S LARGEST SCULPTURE FAIR NOW OPEN
to the natural world, while Ledelle
Moe’s concrete and steel Findings IV,
which consists of small forms mapping
astronomical and geological locations,
prompts questions about our place in
the universe and how we mark time.
Nicola Roos’ intricate sculptures of
black Samurai warriors, which shine a
light on an unexplored African history,
are also an attraction. These works
are complemented by a script reading
by award-winning director, producer
Mandla Walter Dube, from his upcoming
film about the black samurai Legend of
Yasuke.
 The works are shown at The Melrose
Gallery and a number of other venues at
Melrose Arch, which include the Daytona
showroom as well as Sandton City’s
Diamond Walk.
 This year, the event is also paired
with an online viewing room where more
details about the works and the artists
are available, allowing those near and
far to enjoy and browse through the vast
content this fair offers. Panel discussions
and talks focussed on the artists and
sculpture as a form of expression are held
during the two-month run of the fair.
exploring the possibilities of sculpture.
Female artists are represented strongly in
the fair with works by well-known artists
such as Noria Mabasa, Wilma Cruise,
Elizabeth Balcomb and Ledelle Moe,
among many others, dispelling the myth
that sculpture is primarily the preserve of
male artists.
 “We have put much effort into sourcing
female and young artists from the
previously disadvantaged communities
to give them the benefit of this valuable
platform as they are often overlooked and
underrepresented in this genre,” adds
Mark.
 A public call-out process was used to
identify works for the fair and attracted
proposals from many emerging artists.
More than 350 submissions were
considered before 200 works by 90 artists
were chosen. This approach ensures
that SculptX remains an open platform
that offers many surprises in terms of its
content.
 Some of the highlights include a work,
titled Amissa Anima Mea ( Lost Soul) by
Andries Botha, which is created from hot
dipped, galvanised mild steel, leadwoods
and Nguni cow skin. Jacques Dhont’s
giant plant vessels return our attention
We wanted to create a platform to promote sculpture and sculptors to those
who live, work and play in the precinct, as well as art collectors and enthusiasts in
general,” says Craig Mark, director of The Melrose gallery.
issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  113

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
114
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 25 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  115
“MY WORLD” IN ONE THEATRE
A theatre needs colour, texture, emotions and lights. All of that was an arm’s length
away in a different medium.
The seats of a theatre filled with art – this was
the sight that awaited visitors to the Atterbury
Theatre in Tshwane in August 2021 – a first
for the theatre and perhaps even a first in the
world.
 A theatre needs colour, texture, emotions
and lights. All of that was an arm’s length away
in a different medium.
 OPTOG! and Atterbury Theatre invited the
whole of South Africa to enter the first OPTOG!
National Art Competition. The response
exceeded its wildest dreams. It received
art from all over the country – Upington,
Middelburg, Parys, Cape Town and more. The
art competition’s theme was “My World”.
 The judges, Lize Beekman, Anna Davel,
Jak de Priester and Lily Brannon, had the
difficult task of judging the art to select the
winners in each category, out of the 467
entries displayed in the Atterbury Theatre. The
theatre’s 400 seats were converted into an art
gallery that was open for the public to view.
The art was also for sale to support the artists
and the theatre.
 It invited the whole of South Africa to enter
the art competition, and all its loyal supporters
who live far away could visit the online gallery
and vote for their favourite artist.
The Atterbury Theatre: A decade of art
On 18 May 2011, the doors of the Atterbury
Theatre opened for the first time, and the
Many musical
productions and plays
with national and
international artists,
school and dance
productions, beauty,
music and gymnastics
competitions, corporate
functions, gala evenings
and dinners have been
presented at the theatre.
stage was inaugurated with the impressive
musical Stuur Groete aan Mannetjies Roux.
All 24 star-studded performances were sold
out, ushering in a new era in South African
theatre. In the past decade, more than 2 881
shows, productions and functions have been
presented in the theatre that translates into
approximately 865 671 feet that crossed the
threshold of the theatre.
 The Atterbury Theatre embodies the
commitment of the Atterbury Trust to promote
the performing arts and the development
of talent. It is widely regarded as one of
the best theatres in the country and offers
artists in Gauteng, in particular, a world-class
space where music, drama and various other
performing arts can be embodied.
 Many musical productions and plays
with national and international artists, school
and dance productions, beauty, music and
gymnastics competitions, corporate functions,
gala evenings and dinners have been
presented at the theatre.
 During the national lockdown due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the theatre entered
the digital space in the form of a television
and music studio where online concerts were
recorded and broadcast. The very first concert
was a live broadcast with more than 120 000
viewers from around the world. This was the
beginning of a dream that grew to 39 online
performances in the digital library. The theatre
is now also able to provide live streaming
services for any function.
 The final performance of Nataniel’s show,
Butterfly, on Tuesday, 18 May 2021, was a
fitting celebration of the theatre’s 10th birthday,
and in addition to the show, theatregoers were
entertained with a celebratory video focussing
on highlights of the past 10 years as well as
messages from well-loved Atterbury Theatre
artists.

www.goodthingsguy.com /
https://atterburytheatre.co.za
“My World” in one theatre

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 25
116
LIFESTYLE |
The giraffe is the tallest animal in the world, attaining a height of 5.5 m, with its incredibly long neck accounting for much of its weight.
Males can weigh some 1 200 kg while females normally weigh between 800 kg to 900 kg.