seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/foreign_policy_journal_december_2018.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/foreign_policy_journal_december_2018.pdf
title: foreign_policy_journal_december_2018.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

FOREIGN
POLICY
JOURNAL
Reflecting on 2018
International Relations and Cooperation
Department:
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
international relations
& cooperation
www.dirco.gov.za

2 3
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1:
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE SOUTHERN
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (SADC)
2017 – 2018
• Opening remarks by Dr Stergomena Lawrence
Tax, SADC Executive Secretary , on the occasion
of the Official Opening of the SADC Council of
Ministers, OR Tambo Building, Pretoria, 26 March
2018
• Welcome remarks by the Chairperson of the SADC
Council of Ministers, Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of
International Relations and Cooperation of South
Africa, 26 March 2018
• Opening remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa
during the SADC Double Troika Summit, Luanda,
Angola, 24 April 2018
• Opening remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa
during the SADC Double Troika Summit, Luanda,
Angola, 24 April 2018
• Official remarks by Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of
International Relations and Cooperation and
Outgoing Chairperson of the SADC Council of
Ministers, at the Official Opening of the Meeting of
the SADC Council of Ministers, 13 August 2018,
Windhoek, Namibia
• Maiden speech by President Cyril Ramaphosa
at the 38th SADC Summit, Windhoek, Namibia,
17 August 2018
• Keynote address by President Cyril Ramaphosa
at the 38th SADC Summit, Windhoek, Namibia,
17 August 2018
CHAPTER 2:
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE BRAZIL,
RUSSIA, INDIA, CHINA, SOUTH AFRICA (BRICS)
FORUM
• Opening remarks by Minister Lindiwe Sisulu at
the Meeting of the BRICS Ministers of Foreign
Affairs/International Relations, OR Tambo Building,
Pretoria, 4 June 2018
• Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa during
the Open Session of the 10th BRICS Summit,
Sandton International Convention Centre, Sandton,
26 July 2018
• Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on the
occasion of the Post-10th BRICS Summit Media
Briefing, 27 July 2018, Sandton
CONTENTS
FOREIGN POLICY JOURNAL REFLECTING ON 2018
Executive editors
Ndivhuwo Mabaya
Zane Dangor
 Mpho Mmutle
Lloyd Mhlanga
Adv . Menzi Simelane
Content managers
Dr Sharon Horton-Herselman
Tuso Zibula
Michelle Greeff
Editing and proofreading
Delien Burger
Photography
Jacoline Schoonees
Yolande Snyman
Katlholo Maifadi
Yandisa Monakali
ISBN
00-0-000-0000-0
© The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
Prepared by Branch: Public Diplomacy . Published by DIRCO.
OR TAMBO BUILDING
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov .za

CHAPTER 3:
SOUTH AFRICA AS MEMBER OF THE UNITED
NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (UNSC) 2019
– 2020, THE UNVEILING OF THE MANDELA
STATUE, THE NELSON MANDELA PEACE
SUMMIT AND THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
• Media remarks by the Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, following
South Africa’s election to the Non-Permanent Seat
in the UNSC, 8 June 2018
• Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa following
the UNSC elections, 8 June 2018
• Remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the
unveiling of the Nelson Mandela Statue, UN
General Assembly , 24 September 2018, New York,
United States of America
• Political Declaration adopted at the Nelson Mandela
Peace Summit
• Statement by María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés,
President of the 73rd Session of the UN General
Assembly
• Remarks by António Guterres, Secretary-General
of the UN
• Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa
• Statement by President Miguel Diaz Canel of Cuba
• Speech by Taoiseach Leo Varadkar , Prime Minister
of Ireland
• Speech by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New
Zealand
• Speech by the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis
Tsipras
• Address by Maithripala Sirisena, President of Sri
Lanka
• Speech by Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama of Fiji
• Remarks by the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin
Trudeau
• Speech by Professor Arthur Peter Mutharika,
President of the Republic of Malawi
• Statement by President Danny Faure of the
Seychelles
• Speech by President Paul Kagame of Rwanda
• Statement by Prime Minister Andrew Holness of
Jamaica
• Speech by President Muhammadu Buhari of
Nigeria
• Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa to the
UN General Assembly , United Nations, New York,
United States of America, 25 September 2018
CHAPTER 4:
SOUTH AFRICA AS CO-CHAIR OF THE FORUM ON
CHINA-AFRICA COOPERATION (FOCAC)
• Welcoming address by Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister
of International Relations and Cooperation, at the
Opening Session of the Seventh Ministerial Meeting
of FOCAC, Beijing, China, 2 September 2018
• Remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa during the
FOCAC, Beijing, China, 3 September 2018
CHAPTER 5:
HEADS OF MISSION CONFERENCE
• Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the South
African Heads of Mission Conference, OR Tambo
Building, Pretoria, 23 October 2018
CHAPTER 6:
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE INDIAN
OCEAN RIM ASSOCIATION (IORA)
• Opening remarks and country statement by
Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation, at the IORA Council of Ministers
Meeting, Durban, 2 November 2018
CHAPTER 7:
SOUTH AFRICA INVESTMENT CONFERENCE
• Opening address by President Cyril Ramaphosa at
the South Africa Investment Conference , Sandton
Convention Centre, Johannesburg, 26 October 2018
Continuing the Legacy:
Working for a Just and Peaceful World
South Africa – Member of the United Nations
Security Council 2019 – 2020
South Africa in the United Nations Security Council
H   M
OR TAMBO

       IN
SERVICE OF OUR COUNTRY
Heads of Mission Conference
2018I NDIAN O CEAN R IM A SSOCIATION

6 7
This year marks the centenary of the world icon
Nelson Mandela. This is one year in which we should
once again use the space created by Madiba to
leapfrog into a future that we all dreamt of. It is an
especially important year for us as we invite the world
to focus on the example we have set for the rest of
mankind.  We need to drive this celebration of the
man who not only led us into this democracy , but
one who captured the world’s imagination on what
is possible. We had the most fertile ground on which
to build further on the immense work done by Oliver
Tambo in our international relations. Mandela picked
up the baton and charted our foreign policy in the
new dispensation and we remember him for what he
bequeathed to us: freedom, peace and forgiveness.
And the world opened its arms to us.
We once were a giant in the world and our reputation
was well known, because of what South Africa
represented. The world was richer for having given
us support and for us having given them the miracle
of 1994. In Mandela’s memory and in his honour , we
have a responsibility to regain that stature that he left
for us. That stature that allowed us to punch above our
weight and succeed. We’ll regain that stature and put
all out efforts in making sure that we make the world a
better place for all. We should not be in a world where
our children will inherit the ruins of Syria. Our children
should not live in fear of extremist militants. Our
children should not die at the hands of heavy-handed
soldiers. Our children should not die of poverty .
We are faced with major external challenges: poverty ,
where an Oxfam Report indicates that eight billionaires
own the same wealth as half of the poorest countries
in the world; extremism, resulting in an increase in
defence spending, abuse or disregard of international
law and the unravelling of the global governance
system; the weakening of diplomacy; the increasing
tendency of some countries to reduce the complex
and interrelated problems of the world to narrow
national interests; and a global crisis of leadership
and governance, resulting in corruption, abuse of
state power and resources.
Our domestic policies are changing very rapidly
and we have to respond by reconfiguring our foreign
policy . We want to usher in a new era where South
Africa can lift itself out of poverty and inequality and
regain its stature in the world as a model of what can
be achieved when you stretch human endeavour and
make possible that which seems unattainable.
We want South Africa to be once again a moral
compass and a voice of reason in a world increasingly
overcome with selfish, narrow interests. We want to be
the hope for all in times of despair .
Our foreign policy has evolved over many years,
crafted by Oliver Tambo as he sensitised the world
about the struggle of South Africa; and crystallised
and given expression by Nelson Mandela as he
put South Africa firmly on the international stage.
All of this is summarised very aptly in the African
National Congress’ (ANC) 54th National Conference
Declaration: “We remain committed to the founding
values of the struggle for a humane, just, equitable,
democratic and free world”. We have over time been
consolidating it and it boils down to this: a better life for
all, a better life for all of us equally as South Africans,
a better life for our continent, and a better life for the
world, embedded in a desire to create and preserve
peace.
Our Constitution determines that our foreign policy
must be driven by seven major principles:
1. fundamentally transform and achieve sustainable
growth of the economy to empower the people
and create a better life for all
2. deal with the legacies of apartheid colonialism
3. maintain the stability and security of South Africa,
including its constitutional order and institutions
4. develop a peaceful, prosperous and integrated
southern Africa
5. develop a stable and prosperous African continent,
which is not marginalised in world affairs
6. resolve conflicts by negotiations
7. develop a multipolar just and equitable world
order .
South Africa’s approach to and implementation of our
foreign policy must be based on an understanding of
the current regional and global political and economic
realities.
Our contribution and support to the President in
implementing our country’s international programme
seeks to practically change the lives of our people for
the better . We remain guided by our domestic priorities
INTRODUCTION

8 9
and aspirations in the formulation and consequent
implementation of an independent and democratic
foreign policy , which is premised on the values of
our Constitution. Our work, however , recognises the
importance of improving the living conditions of our
fellow Africans on the continent as well as creating
conditions for human fulfilment across the globe.
In essence, our aspirations, which are encapsulated
in the National Development Plan Vision 2030,
provide an overarching vision that guides our foreign
policy imperatives and our international relations
programme.
Suffice to state, that our purview of work is increasingly
challenging, considering the faster dynamism of the
international environment, which has in the recent
past witnessed efforts to entrench protectionism and
elitism in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
While the said era has its advantages, we cannot shy
away from the reality that it has demonstrated the
potential to further alienate the majority of the poor
worldwide and for that reason we must proactively
manage its effects.
We can only leverage its opportunities and avert
compounding the persistent economic hardships by
investing in our populaces and ensuring that Africa is
not left behind as the digital era further evolves.
We must also be conscious that our continent and the
region will progress towards improved manufacturing
capacities and reduce its dependence on exporting
raw materials only to buy furnished products later
at higher prices. This perpetuation of neo-colonial
relations undermines our continental and regional
efforts to bolster prosperity through product value
and increased intra-Africa trade.
We, however , must double our efforts to counter
the effects of an unpredictable and economically
sluggish environment. Thus, we remain cognisant
of the fact that the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) is our immediate and biggest
trade partner of which our future is intertwined with
that of the region and the continent.
As such, we utilised our Chairship of SADC for the
period 2017/18 under the theme, “Partnering with the
Private Sector in Developing Industry and Regional
Value Chains”, to continue to bolster economic growth
in the region, with a dedicated focus on harnessing
BRICS Outreach programme with African leaders in
attendance and the BRICS Plus interaction.
With regard to the Indian Ocean Rim Association
(IORA), South Africa assumed the Chair of the
association for the period October 2017 until
October 2019. This provides us with an opportunity
to build on the Jakarta Summit outcomes and propel
the implementation of the IORA Action Plan (2017
– 2021). Importantly , we focussed and will continue
to do so, on enhancing the institutional mechanisms
necessary to advance important priorities for
South Africa and the region. These include but are
not limited to women’s economic empowerment,
maritime safety and security , the Blue Economy and
tourism.
Our bilateral relations with countries in the region,
on the continent, the Global South and the North
continue to grow and strengthen within the difficult
economic climate. Notably , we managed to place
Africa’s development agenda in the G20 purview
of work during the reporting period. We have also
impressed upon our partners in the world the
need to work together to create a conducive world
environment for humanity to thrive.
Our bilateral relations have served as a key driver of
Economic Diplomacy and yielded tangible dividends
for the South African economy . The southern African
region continued to be of great importance to
South Africa, not only politically , but more so in the
area of trade and economic development. In 2016,
South Africa’s trade with the region amounted to
R336 billion, which is estimated to be more that 70%
of the total trade with Africa.
Western Europe accounted for about 25% of South
Africa’s total global trade in 2016 and remained
South Africa’s largest source of FDI. The United
States of America (USA) and Canada continued to
be important trade and investment partners for South
Africa, with 863 companies from the region trading
in South Africa, creating over 120 000 employment
opportunities. South Africa is also the USA and
Canada’s most important commercial partner in
Africa.
South Africa’s presence in the Asia and the Middle
East consisted of six missions in 1994. In 2014, South
Africa had diplomatic relations with all 57 countries in
the region, with 32 missions.
the participation and enhanced cooperation of the
regional private sector in the implementation of
the SADC Regional Industrialisation Strategy and
Roadmap.
In a similar vein, our objectives of regional integration
within SADC are also intertwined with our objectives
of the African Union (AU) and enhancing the African
Agenda. The adoption and launch of the Continental
Free Trade Area, as well as the signing of the Kigali
Declaration, took us a step closer towards a regional
and continentally integrated economy .
Our region is stable although we shall continue
to impress on partners and work with them to
consolidate democracy and peace for development.
We have accordingly discharged our SADC
sanctioned mediation responsibility in Lesotho, which
culminated in the elections which were declared free
and fair .
Complimentarily , we witnessed the establishment of
the AU Peace Fund during the reporting period and
are confident that this will support African solutions
and strengthen peace mechanisms of the AU Peace
and Security Council. We believe that stronger
continental mechanisms are indeed required to
ensure that the aspirational goal of “silencing the
guns” by 2020 is realised.
We are not just an African country considering our
strong roots and orientation as a country of the
South. Our partnerships and formations within South-
South relations are therefore historic and as such
remains important. Thus, to furthering our economic
imperatives, the Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa (BRICS) countries continued to be the
leading sources of foreign direct investment (FDI)
among emerging investor countries. Flows from
these five economies rose from US$7billion in 2000
to US$145 billion in 2012, accounting for 10% of the
world total.
We assumed Chairship of BRICS on 1 January
2018 and will conclude this role on 31 December
2018. As such, the 10th BRICS Summit was chaired
by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the Sandton
International Convention Centre from 25 to 27 July
2018 under the theme, “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration
for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in
the 4th Industrial Revolution”. All BRICS leaders
participated. President Ramaphosa also chaired the
Consequently , in 1994, South Africa’s total trade in
the region stood at approximately R5 billion for the
Middle East and R40 billon for Asia. In 2014, this
figure grew rapidly and substantially to R760 billion
for Asia and R116 billion for the Middle East.
We therefore committed to advance this objective
once provided with the opportunity to serve on the
United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent
member from 2019 to 2020 as endorsed by the AU
in January 2018.
We believe in a global system that has been
developed and structured to ensure that never again
will we experience a war . This system is established
to ensure that we never again slide to the levels of
destruction we have had over so many years.
The fundamentals of our foreign policy are based
on human rights, peace, equality and freedom from
oppression, racism and poverty . This is our focus; first
and foremost on the African continent. We remain an
important player on the African continent and our role
has been aptly described as pivotal, and we intend
to keep it that way .
The renaissance that we dreamed of is still possible
in our lifetime. In fact, the African Renaissance
remains a key objective of the ANC, confirmed at its
54th National Conference. However , our importance
as a role player depends on getting ourselves out of
the problems that surround us right now. A country
mired in its own problems can hardly expect to make
any impact on the world stage.
Our potential to influence for good is enormous,
based on our history . We can continue to be the moral
compass of the world and we need to. We continue
to fight against injustice, because we have to. We
who have suffered so much, can ill afford suffering in
any part of the world.
A better South Africa, a better Africa, in a better
world!
Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation

10 11
CHAPTER 1
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (SADC) 2017 – 2018

12 13
CHAPTER 1
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY
(SADC) 2017–2018
Opening remarks by Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax, SADC Executive Secretary,
on the occasion of the Official Opening of the SADC Council of Ministers,
OR Tambo Building, Pretoria, 26 March 2018
Honourable Ms Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation of the Republic of South
Africa and Chairperson of the SADC Council of Ministers,
Honourable Ministers,
Chairperson of the SADC Standing Committee of Senior Officials,
SADC Deputy Executive Secretaries,
Senior Officials from SADC Member States,
Your Excellencies, Ambassadors and High Commissioners,
SADC Secretariat Staff,
Representatives of the Media,
Invited Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am also glad to report that during the year , drafts
of the SADC Regional Mining Vision and Protocol
on Industry were prepared and consultations were
held with relevant stakeholders. The Regional
Mining Vision will optimise the benefits from mineral
extraction through extended mineral beneficiation
and the development of strong economic linkages
between the mining sector and other economic
sectors, especially manufacturing. The Protocol
on Industry will provide for a supportive policy
environment for the implementation of the SADC
Industrialisation Strategy across sectors.   
Recognising the pivotal role of the private sector in the
achievement of the region’s development objectives,
during the year , the Secretariat continued to work
with private-sector organisations in member states
to finalise the development of an effective public-
private engagement mechanism. This will ensure
that our programmes and activities are informed by
the needs and experiences of the private sector . The
draft mechanism was presented and deliberated by
the Industrial Development Forum in February 2018,
and is due to be finalised during 2018/19.
In our continued efforts to consolidate the SADC
Free Trade Area and strengthen the financial sector ,
the region continued with the implementation of the
cross-border payment system through the SADC
Integrated Regional Settlement System (SIRESS),
which currently settles transactions using the South
African Rand. To date, over a million transactions,
representing R4,09 trillion have been settled using
the system. In order to ensure that the system is
inclusive and caters for all the currencies in the
region, a multicurrency and low-value framework
was developed during the period under review. The
multicurrency platform will also have the US Dollar as
an additional currency of settlement and is expected
to be operational by October 2018.
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
A healthy and vibrant human capital is a key enabler
of industrialisation; as such, strengthening the
manufacturing base for essential medical supplies
and commodities in the region is critical for human
capital development and health. I am glad to report
that a feasibility study on Regional Manufacturing of
Medicines and Health Commodities was completed
during the year . This study will facilitate the setting up of
mechanisms to facilitate manufacturing of the much-
needed generic medicines and health commodities
Allow me to begin by congratulating Honourable
Lindiwe Sisulu for her appointment as Minister of
International Relations and Cooperation of the
Republic of South Africa and thus, Chairperson of
the SADC Council of Ministers. We look forward to
working with you and I have no doubt that in you, we
shall find an able steward who will continue guiding
the SADC region in its transformative agenda to
industrialise. May I also take this opportunity to
express our gratitude to the Government of the
Republic of South Africa for hosting the meeting of
the Council of Ministers, and to the people of South
Africa for your hospitality and the traditional warm
welcome.
Allow me to also congratulate Honourable Domingos
Augusto, Minister of External Relations of Angola;
Honourable José Condungua Pacheco, Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Mozambique; Honourable Joseph
Malanji, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic
of Zambia; and Honourable Dr Lieutenant General
(Rtd) Sibusiso B Moyo, Minister of Foreign Affairs and
International Trade of the Republic of Zimbabwe; for
their appointments, and welcome them as members
of the Council of Ministers. We also welcome and
congratulate the Comoros for being accepted to join
SADC as the 16th member of SADC.
On a sad note, the SADC Secretariat has received
with sorrow the news on the passing of the
father to Mr  Sandile Schalk, the Chief Director
in the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation of South Africa and the SADC National
Contact Point. Our deepest condolences, and may
the Almighty continue to comfort them, and rest in
peace the soul of our late father .
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
The main objective of this Council of Ministers
Meeting is to receive progress on the implementation
of the 2017/18 plan, and to consider the proposed
plan and budget for 2018/19. In this regard, allow
me Honourable Ministers to present a few milestones
achieved during the year under review. Tremendous
progress has been made in a number of areas in
our quest to regional integration. In line with the 37th
SADC Summit theme of “Partnering with the Private
Sector in Developing Industry and Regional Value
Chains”, value chains in areas that were profiled in
2016/17, namely: mining, pharmaceuticals and agro-
processing sectors, were identified. The priority value
chains identified in the following subsectors are:
leather , soya, aquaculture, iron and steel, copper ,
cement and ARV manufacturing. In the coming
financial year , detailed mapping and feasibility
studies on each of these identified value chains will
be undertaken, based on which bankable projects
will be developed.  
May I thank the SADC Chairperson, the Republic
of South Africa, for spearheading this progress.
for communicable and non-communicable diseases
within the region. Having completed this important
study in the fiscal year 2018/19, the Secretariat will
coordinate the development of a five-year SADC
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Action Plan.
In relation to HIV and AIDS, it may be recalled
that the funding from the Global Fund towards the
Cross-Border Wellness Initiative came to an end in
December 2017. Consequently , member states are
expected to take over all the 32 wellness sites that
have been established. The sustainability of these
sites is imperative to ensure that the investment
gained over the past four years to mitigate the impact
of HIV and AIDS on long-distance truck drivers,
sex workers and affected communities around the
border areas is maintained.  Allow me to use this
opportunity to call upon member states to take up,
and prioritise this critical initiative.
 
Chairperson,
It is also worth reporting that, working through
various project-preparation facilities, the Secretariat
continued to engage the private sector through
public-private dialogues, including through
Southern African Business Forum thematic working
groups and the World Economic Forum (WEF).
Through such engagements, we have been able to
identify projects that have the potential for private-
sector investment or public-private partnerships,
including in the energy , transport and water sectors,
out of which seven have been submitted to the
WEF Africa Sustainable Development Investment
Programme. The Sustainable Development
Investment Programme members are committed
to mobilising blended finance worth US$100 billion
for projects supporting sustainable and climate
resilient infrastructure programmes and projects.
I am also happy to report that in February 2018, the
Secretariat signed an aide memoire with the African
Development Bank, where the bank has committed
to support SADC in a number of areas, including the
identification and categorisation of priority bankable
projects from SADC’s Regional Infrastructure
Development Master Plan (RIDMP); development
of financial instruments and frameworks that
are relevant to SADC regional projects such as
infrastructure bonds, partial risk guarantees,
insurance guarantees and partial credit guarantees
for use in member states; development of bankable
value chains; development of SADC economic

14 15
corridors aimed at supporting infrastructure projects
to facilitate regional value chains; and development
of insurance to mitigate and address the impacts of
climate change-related risks. May I at this juncture,
recognise the presence of Ms Moono Muputola,
the bank’s Director for Regional Integration and her
team. May I also express our sincere appreciation
to the bank for its continued support to SADC.
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
Implementation of the SADC priorities requires
sustainable sources of funding. To this effect, the
Secretariat, in collaboration with member states,
has developed a Resource Mobilisation Framework,
and a progress report will be presented and
discussed during this meeting. One of the critical
aspects of the Resource Mobilisation Framework
is the identification of innovative and sustainable
financial instruments. In this regard, the Secretariat
is working with the African Development Bank
(AfDB) to help develop these instruments. So far ,
the AfDB has pledged to support the Secretariat
to operationalise phase one of the SADC Regional
Development Fund.
During the year , the Secretariat has also continued
to collaborate with international cooperating
partners, and notable progress in this area
includes programming under the 11th Cycle of
the European Development Fund (EDF 11), where
project identification in the identified areas that
include trade and industrialisation, agriculture,
trade facilitation, migration and peace and security
have been completed and the related action plans
approved. Under the EDF 11, the European Union
has agreed to extend US$90 million for a period of
four years.
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
Political stability , peace and security remain a
key enabler for deepening regional economic
integration. During the period under review, focus
was placed on the facilitation and consolidation
of mediation, conflict prevention and preventive
diplomacy initiatives. Following the attainment of full
operational capability in 2015 with the conduct of the
Amani Africa II Exercise, the SADC Standby Force
deployed in November 2017, a multidimensional
contingent mission in the Kingdom of Lesotho with
the objective of supporting Lesotho in restoring
political and security stability . This is clear evidence
My deepest gratitude also goes to my Deputy
Executive Secretaries, SADC management and all
staff at the Secretariat for the support, dedication
and hard work, which have contributed to the
achievements that the Secretariat has been able
to record during the year under review. Steve Jobs
once said, “The only way to do great work is to love
what you do”. As we begin 2018/19, let us keep the
momentum and maintain the Team Spirit.
that the region has put in place the necessary
structures and mechanisms that enhance our
cooperation and ensure peace, security and
political stability in the region.
Honourable Ministers,
These are a few highlights of the year under review;
a comprehensive report of achievements recorded
in the year will be presented during your meeting.
Chairperson,
The region continues to be affected by poor weather
and adverse climatic conditions that continue
to stifle growth of the agriculture sector with a
negative impact on food security .  The region has
just experienced a poor rainfall season in 2017/18.
Notwithstanding, some notable improvements
in January and February , the 2018 agricultural
production will be negatively affected, and result in
food insecurity for many households. Furthermore,
the region has also experienced the outbreak of the
fall armyworm that has had devastating impacts on
cereal production, particularly in Namibia, Malawi,
Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
and is likely to result in food shortages, particularly
in the staple maize crop in these countries. These
developments emphasise the need to have a robust
and resilient agricultural sector . It is for this reason
that our industrialisation agenda has prioritised
development of value chains, in among others,
agro-processing, supported by other mechanisms
to complement household food security . Our
cooperation in this area remains critical.
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
Our focus for the financial year 2018/19 as will be
presented during your meeting remains on our
priorities, namely: industrialisation and market
integration, infrastructure development to leverage
industrialisation, and peace and security .
As I conclude, I wish to thank the Council of Ministers
for the continued guidance, and the member states
for supporting the Secretariat by availing the
needed resources in a timely manner .  May I also
express our gratitude to our strategic partners
and international cooperation partners for their
technical and financial support in our development
efforts.
Chairperson, Honourable Ministers,
With these few remarks, it is my honour and privilege
to invite the Chairperson of Council to deliver her
opening remarks, Madam Chairperson, the floor is
yours.
I thank you very much!
Muito obrigado!
Merci beacoup!
Ke a leboga!
Asanteni sana!
Welcome remarks by the Chairperson of the SADC Council of Ministers, Lindiwe Sisulu,
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation of South Africa, 26 March 2018
Your Excellencies, Ministers and Deputy Ministers,
SADC Executive Secretary , Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax,
SADC Deputy Executive Secretaries,
Heads of Senior Officials’ Delegations,
Officials from our Member States,
Officials from the SADC Secretariat,
Members of the Media here present,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is my singular honour and privilege to welcome you
all to this, the SADC Council of Ministers’ Meeting.
As I welcome you, allow me to extend a special word
of welcome to the following foreign ministers who
are, like me, attending the Council Meeting for the
first time:
1. Hon Minister , Mr Manuel Augusto of the Republic
of Angola
2. Hon Minister , Mr José Pacheco of the Republic
of Mozambique
3. Hon Minister , Mr Joseph Malanji of the Republic
of Zambia
4. Hon Minister , Retired Lieutenant General
Dr Sibusiso Moyo of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
I am also pleased to welcome to the SADC family ,
our 16th new member , the Union of Comoros,
represented by the Honourable Minister , Mr Souf
Mohamed El-Amin, Minister of Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation.
I hope that those of us who are new to the club will
find this meeting refreshing and fulfilling. I can at
least attest that in my previous engagements with the
council as the Minister of Intelligence and Minister
of Defence, I always found our SADC meetings
focussed, result-orientated and very fulfilling.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I believe it is important to start from the beginning.
What is the beginning? The beginning is the founding
Treaty establishing our own Southern African
Development Community (SADC). The 1992 SADC
Treaty correctly outlines foundational principles
under which we as member states ought to act. For
purposes of emphasis, it is important that I list these
principles:
1. sovereign equality of all member states
2. solidarity , peace and security
3. human rights, democracy and rule of law
4. equity , balance and mutual benefit
5. peaceful settlement of disputes.
These are the principles that guide us all the time in
our journey towards regional economic integration.
We gather here this morning to think and strategise
together on how best and how fast we can improve
the lives of all our peoples. We have clear and
common objectives towards regional economic

16 17
We pledge our continued support as it delivers on
its annual work programme and mandate and to
strengthen its governance and institutional capacity
in order to enhance its effectiveness.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
We have an extensive agenda ahead of us. Let us
accord the work before us the required attention and
provide the necessary political direction on the way
forward.
integration and sustainable development. Our
experience in Kigali was truly uplifting. We should
therefore continuously seek to unlock our regional
potential and opportunities to effectively address the
core issues of unemployment, underdevelopment
and poverty alleviation and contribute fully to the
upliftment of the continent.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am exceptionally pleased that this Council Meeting
takes place in the year that we celebrate the
centenary year of the birth of one of the fathers of
our nation, Mr Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela. To our
people and I am sure to many in the region, he will
always be affectionately known as Madiba!
Former President Mandela stands out as one of the
most notable leaders of our liberation struggle who
mobilised international solidarity against apartheid
and contributed to establishing and shaping a post-
apartheid democratic South Africa. As we celebrate
the centenary of Madiba, we draw inspiration from
his exceptional wisdom, humility and resilience and
ability to rise above his circumstances and chart the
path towards a free, non-racial democracy . He was
a true international statesman and we will continue
to draw invaluable lessons from his outstanding
leadership and compassion, for decades to come.
When South Africa joined the SADC community
in 1998, President Mandela shared with us the
following words: “Our vision for the SADC region is
therefore the highest possible degree of economic
integration, consistent with our socio-economic and
political reality . Our tasks as governments are to
provide the environment that will release the creative
abilities of our people to produce wealth to create
development”. 
As we enter our 26th year as a SADC family , we
must continuously reflect on our progress. Our
objectives in SADC are informed by the SADC
Common Agenda, which seeks to advance peace,
stability and sustainable development in our region.
It is important to note that the political and security
situation in the region remains stable, though there
are some political and security challenges which the
region must continue to address.
As you are aware, the SADC Common Agenda has
also guided us to develop economic blueprints
such as the Revised Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan, the Regional Industrialisation
Strategy and Roadmap 2015 – 2063, the Strategic
Indicative Plan of the Organ and the Regional
Infrastructure Development Master Plan.
In our pursuit of a common SADC future, it is
clear that in our region there is a critical need for
industrial development underpinned by a sound
infrastructure. As SADC Chair , South Africa is working
towards ensuring the practical implementation of the
SADC Industrialisation Plan as adopted by the SADC
Extra-Ordinary Summit in March 2017. As a result, South
Africa’s theme for her Chairship year , titled: “Partnering
with the Private Sector in Developing Industry and
Regional Value Chains”, further emphasises the
importance of regional industrialisation.
Industrialisation remains a core prerequisite for
prosperity in the region and has to be achieved
through a strong partnership with the private
sector . It is therefore clear that all SADC members
should focus on the need to strengthen the region’s
capabilities, both inside and outside of government,
in order to advance regional industrialisation. It is our
belief that SADC governments should identify priority
value chains and take steps to attract the private
sector into these specific sectors.
As part of our regional strategy , South Africa is also
working on a set of deliverables, which will focus on
some high-impact cross-border projects in order
to support manufacturing and the creation of new
regional value chains. We will report back to the next
SADC Summit in August this year on progress in this
respect. 
Our vision for our Chairship is to provide for
ourselves policy direction and for all of us an
enabling environment for a sustainable programme
that prioritises the preparation of high-impact cross-
border projects that are pragmatic, enhance skills,
create jobs and boost regional trade.
As indicated, we have all committed to improving the
quality of life for our people to advance sustainable
economic development. To this end, we have a
long journey to travel and we cannot be found to be
wanting or to have failed. It is therefore fundamental
that we unleash the appropriate resources and make
a concerted effort to work together towards the
SADC our people deserve and a SADC we can be
proud of. Our gratitude to the SADC Secretariat, ever
so passionate about their work.
I welcome you once more and trust that you will find
the arrangements put at your disposal conducive to
our successful deliberations.
Thank you.
Merci.
Obrigada.
Opening remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa during the SADC Double Troika Summit,
Luanda, Angola, 24 April 2018
Your Excellency João Lourenço, President of the Republic of Angola and the Chairperson of the Organ on
Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation,
Your Majesty , King Mswati III of the Kingdom of eSwatini and Outgoing Chair of SADC,
Your Excellency , Dr Hage Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia and Incoming Chair of SADC,
Your Excellency , Edgar Lungu, President of the Republic of Zambia and Incoming Chair of the Organ,
Honourable Augustine Mahiga, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, representing His
Excellency John Pombe Magufuli, President of the United Republic of Tanzania,
Honourable Ministers here present,
Your Excellency , Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax, SADC Executive Secretary ,
Senior Government Officials,
Members of Staff of the SADC Secretariat,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Members of the Media,
Good morning to you all.
I wish to take this opportunity to express my
appreciation and thanks to His Excellency , President
João Lourenço, Chairperson of the Organ on Politics,
Defence and Security Cooperation, the Government
and people of the Republic of Angola for the warm
welcome, hospitality and courtesies accorded to us
since our arrival in Luanda. Angola has a special
place in the hearts and minds of the people of our
region.
Your Excellencies,
We meet here this morning on the occasion of the
Extraordinary Session of the SADC Double Troika
essentially to review the political and security
situation in the region. We note with great satisfaction
that our region, notwithstanding a few political and
security challenges in a few sister countries, remains
stable.
The political and security challenges in the Kingdom
of Lesotho, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)
and the Republic of Madagascar correctly continue
to occupy our attention. The timely convening of this
summit demonstrates our commitment to assisting
these member states in their search for a lasting
political and security solution.
In the Kingdom of Lesotho, we have practically
demonstrated our resolve in bringing about stability
through the work of the SADC Facilitator , deployment
of the Oversight Committee and the deployment of
a SADC Preventive Mission.  While acknowledging
some progress on the implementation of the SADC
decisions and the submission of a Roadmap on
Reforms, we nonetheless urge the Government, the
opposition parties and the people of the Kingdom
to start the reform process in earnest. In this regard,
we advise the people of Lesotho to prioritise the
constitutional reforms and complete this process in
the shortest period of time. Constitutional reforms

18 19
Official remarks by Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation and
Outgoing Chairperson of the SADC Council of Ministers, at the Official Opening of the Meeting
of the SADC Council of Ministers, 13 August 2018, Windhoek, Namibia
Honourable Ms Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwa, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation of the Republic of Namibia, and the Incoming Chairperson of the SADC Council of Ministers,
Honourable Ministers,
SADC Senior Officials,
Your Excellencies, Ambassadors, High Commissioners and Members of the Diplomatic Corps,
Your Excellency , Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax, Executive Secretary of SADC,
Heads of Continental and Regional Organisations,
Heads of International Organisations,
Colleagues from the Media,
Distinguished Invited Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
remain a cornerstone towards political stability that
will constitute the edifice of all other sectoral reforms,
including security .
Having said that, let me commend the Preventive
Mission and the Oversight Committee for the sterling
work done thus far in their cooperation with the
Government and the people of the Kingdom of
Lesotho and all other stakeholders.
On the DRC, we note the progress made in the
implementation of the December 2016 Political
Agreement as demonstrated by the National
Independent Electoral Commission publicising the
Electoral Calendar , voter registration and the general
preparations for the December 2018 elections. The
people of the DRC deserve support in their quest to
find a lasting solution to the challenges facing their
country .
We also call upon all stakeholders in the DRC to
work together as they prepare for these important
elections. We equally express our concern about the
continued security instability in some parts of the
country . We wish to assure the Government and the
people of the DRC of our continued support.
On Madagascar , there is certainly an urgent need
for our organisation to make a timely intervention,
given the current unfolding situation. We should not
allow the country to slide back to political instability ,
particularly now that it is preparing for elections. We
call on all stakeholders in the country to exercise
restraint and have the best interests of the country
at heart. 
Your Excellencies,
Let me conclude by wishing those member states
that are going to hold elections this year success as
they prepare for the elections.
I would like to thank you, President Lourenço, for
convening this important summit and also wish the
summit productive deliberations. It is my pleasure
therefore to open this Extraordinary Double Troika
Summit.
I thank you.
I feel extremely delighted to stand here this morning,
to say a few words before I hand over the mantle to my
successor and dear sister , Honourable Ms Netumbo
Nandi-Ndaitwa, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
of International Relations and Cooperation of the
Republic of Namibia, and the Incoming Chairperson
of the SADC Council of Ministers.
Before I go any further , permit me to express my
sincere gratitude to the Government and people of
Namibia for their warm reception and hospitality , as
well as the excellent facilities that have been put at
our disposal since our arrival in this historical city
of Windhoek. This is, indeed, a “place by streams”
that has several fountains of invigorating waters and
fresh air – characteristics that will certainly make for
fruitful meetings.
For South Africa, August is Women’s Month and every
year during this time, we remember the sacrifices
and the contribution of women in the struggle for a
democratic and free nation. At regional level, women
continue to enhance our shared vision of attaining
a stable, peaceful, secure and prosperous SADC
community .
Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen,
When South Africa was afforded the opportunity
to Chair SADC, taking over from the Kingdom of
eSwatini, we resolved to build on the initiatives that
were started at Victoria Falls, were taken to Gaborone
and later to Lozitha.
We needed to maintain the focus on industrial
development, promotion of regional value chains
and value addition in the region. In this regard, the
theme for our tenure of office, “Partnering with the
Private Sector in Developing Industry and Regional
Value Chains”, was chosen with the full realisation
that our goals can only be met if we focus on strong
and meaningful partnerships with the private sector ,
which is part of the engine for sustainable economic
growth.
Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen,
From the time that the historic decision, to frontload
industrialisation in the regional development
framework, was taken in August 2014 by our heads
of state and government at Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe,
we have collectively and tirelessly worked to ensure
that the dream becomes a reality through the
implementation of our various blueprints.
Not only has our community produced the best
strategy for our region and the first of its kind, the
SADC Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap, we
have also taken concerted efforts to ensure that
we are able to build productive capacities within
member states.
Through this strategy , we recognise that trade
liberalisation can meaningfully contribute towards
sustainable and equitable development while
meeting the goals for poverty alleviation. Production
should not only be in terms of quantities, but also
quality , based on effective and efficient systems,
while being mindful of the comparative advantages
of member states.
Honourable Ministers,
We all know that for a long time regional industrial
growth, particularly in the manufacturing sector ,
has been less impressive, and our economies are
insufficiently diversified. We have, for a long time,
relied on very few primary commodity exports,
making our member states extremely vulnerable to
price shocks.
It is now time that we diversify our economies,
increase the participation of member states in
regional value chains and promote value addition.
We must collectively work towards accelerating
economic integration processes that will promote
specialisation and the development of regional
value chains.

I am delighted that we have progressively put in
place policies and institutions that will promote
the adoption of technological know-how, ensuring
modernisation of production systems, as well
as embracing skills development, science and
technology . To further realise these objectives, we
will have to continue strengthening financial systems
that would facilitate availability and movement of
capital. Above all, we will continue to ensure that the
region has well-developed infrastructure to facilitate
trade and the easy movement of goods and services.
Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen,
In order to optimally achieve the objectives as set out
in our work programme, we need to further strengthen
and cultivate private-sector involvement. The role
of our governments is to put in place policies and
initiatives that would create an enabling environment
for the private sector to grow.
We are catalysts, something which should be
appreciated by member states, so that our investment,
trade and industrial policies are able to shape
incentives to attract private-sector involvement. It is
for this reason, that we have taken a very proactive
approach to engage the private sector in the SADC
regional integration agenda. In this regard, efforts
are underway to develop a cooperation framework for

20 21
Maiden speech by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the 38th SADC Summit,
Windhoek, Namibia, 17 August 2018
Your Excellency , Dr Hage Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia and Chair of SADC,
Your Majesty , King Mswati III of the Kingdom of eSwatini,
Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellency , President Paul Kagame of the Republic of Rwanda and Chairperson of the African Union,
Your Excellency , Mr Moussa Mahamat Faki, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Honourable Ministers,
SADC Executive Secretary ,
Excellencies, Ambassadors and High Commissioners,
Senior Officials,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We will, therefore, continue to guard our hard-won
freedom by ensuring that member states continue
to adhere to good governance and the rule of
law, and ensuring that regular national democratic
elections are held. We remain seized with political
developments in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, the Kingdom of Lesotho and the Republic
of Madagascar , in order to find lasting solutions to
achieve peace and stability .
Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen,
In conclusion, let me once again express my profound
appreciation on behalf of my Government and the
people of the Republic of South Africa. It has indeed
been a great honour and privilege to steer the affairs
of the Council of Ministers. The cooperation and
support I received from honourable ministers and the
SADC Secretariat, led by Dr Stergomena Lawrence
Tax, gave me and my team the energy to drive our
SADC work agenda.
As I hand over the Chairship to Namibia, I take
comfort that my dear sister , Honourable Ms Netumbo
Nandi-Ndaitwa, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
of International Relations and Cooperation of the
Republic of Namibia, will continue to successfully
advance the regional integration agenda.

I implore each one of us to render unwavering
support to the Incoming Chairperson of Council as
we demonstrate to the continent and the rest of the
world our collective commitment to the ideals and
values of SADC.
I thank you all for your attention, and wish you fruitful
deliberations.
Merci.
Obrigada.
private-sector participation of businesses operating
in SADC.
To this end, the SADC Industrialisation Week, recently
held from 30 July to 1 August 2018 in Windhoek,
has been running for the third year successfully .
The event provides a useful platform for private-
sector companies domiciled in SADC member
states to showcase their products produced as a
result of regional value chains and the promotion
of value additions. It is also an excellent platform for
engagement and continues to foster opportunities
for intra-regional trade and investment.
As we move forward, there is more work to be done on
SADC industrial development initiatives. We therefore
need to prioritise trade-facilitation bottlenecks such as
inadequate infrastructure and customs procedures,
as well as weak logistics systems which raise
trade costs and hinder the ease of doing business.
Transport costs and transit delays in southern Africa
are reported to be particularly higher than in most
other regions, and have a potential to reverse the
gains in regional industrial development.
Without resource mobilisation, which provides
options for funding our programmes and agenda,
we cannot achieve envisioned objectives as outlined
in our approved strategic blueprints. Regional
integration is not an option and, as such, we must
strive to establish sustainable funding mechanisms
for the implementation of SADC programmes and
projects.
Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen,
As I mentioned during my speech in March 2018
in Pretoria, the SADC region remains relatively
peaceful and stable. Peace, security and stability
are essential ingredients for sustainable economic
growth, poverty alleviation, addressing inequalities
and underdevelopment in the region.
The region’s democratic footprint and its prevailing
positive security and political climate are  undoubtedly
conducive to the promotion of investment inflows
into the region and contribute towards intra-regional
trade and the movement of capital.
It is a great honour to be welcomed here as part of
the SADC family .
Our bonds of friendship and solidarity go back to
the formation of the Frontline States, whose resolve
to strengthen historical, social and cultural relations
among our people continues to this day .
It was these formidable bonds that led to the
destruction of the apartheid regime and ended its
destabilisation of the region.
Today , we are proud that SADC has matured into a
fully-fledged organisation whose focus is to advance
the prosperity of the region and its people.
It is important to remind ourselves about the treaty
establishing SADC, particularly its objectives to forge
regional integration, better the lives of our people,
promote democracy and economic prosperity and
ensure peace and security .
Despite the clear intent in the treaty , our region is still
confronted with many challenges, including a lack of
adequate infrastructure, underdevelopment, poverty ,
the effects of climate change and the spread of
communicable diseases.
In responding to these challenges, we can say with
confidence that our regional organisation is on a
positive trajectory .
In the recent past, we have developed key plans that
guide our efforts to realise our mandate.
These include the Revised Regional Indicative
Strategic Development Plan (2015 – 2020), the
Regional Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap,
the Regional Infrastructure Development Master Plan
and the Strategic Indicative Plan of the Organ.
Together , these plans are critical for deepening
regional integration among SADC member states
and ensuring the sustainable development of our
region.
Our priorities are inextricably linked to the Continental
Agenda, and in particular the implementation of the
African Union’s Agenda 2063.
These priorities require that we continue with our
efforts to support the COMESA-EAC-SADC Tripartite
Free Trade Area as an important building bloc
towards the achievement of the African Continental
Free Trade Area.
Your Excellencies,
We note with appreciation that our region remains
relatively peaceful and stable.
Elections are held at regular intervals as we strive to
entrench and consolidate democracy , the rule of law,
human rights and good governance.
South Africa has aligned its National Development
Plan to the vision of the SADC Common Agenda,
which seeks to bring about peace, stability , security
and sustainable development in the region.
In promoting our own national objectives, South Africa
values the critical role SADC plays as an instrument
of regional development and integration.
I am certain that our deliberations at this summit will
serve to further strengthen the bonds between us

22 23
and reinforce our determination to realise the vision
of this organisation.
Only through collective action and shared
accountability , will we be able to advance our
integration agenda.
In conclusion, allow me to thank you for the warm
welcome and the great support I have received
Keynote address by President Ramaphosa at the 38th SADC Summit,
Windhoek, Namibia, 17 August 2018
Your Excellency , Dr Hage Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia,
Your Majesty , King Mswati III of the Kingdom of eSwatini,
Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellency , President Paul Kagame of the Republic of Rwanda and Chairperson of the African Union,
Your Excellency , Mr Moussa Mahamat Faki, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Honourable Ministers,
SADC Executive Secretary ,
Excellencies, Ambassadors and High Commissioners, Representatives of the Regional and International
Organisations, Senior Officials from the SADC Member States,
SADC Secretariat Officials
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
since becoming the President of South Africa and a
member of the SADC collective.
South Africa is firmly committed to play its part in
building a better SADC, a better Africa and a better
world.
I thank you.
It is a great privilege for me to welcome you to the
38th Ordinary Summit of the SADC Heads of State
and Government.
It is a particular honour to do so on SADC Day ,
17 August. This day marks 26 years since we signed
the treaty that established our organisation – a treaty
that I had the privilege to sign on behalf of the African
National Congress.
Let me express my gratitude to my brother , His
Excellency , President Hage Geingob and the people
of Namibia for the warm reception and gracious
hospitality accorded to all of us.
I wish to thank you, Your Excellencies, for the
guidance and support you accorded South Africa
since our country took over the Chairship of SADC
last year .
It has been an honour to work with fellow member
states in advancing all areas of the SADC agenda.
Let us continue to work in unity to do more for our
people, together with our people.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The year 2017/18 marked the third year of
implementation of the Revised Regional Indicative
Strategic Development Plan 2015 – 2020. While
we recorded significant achievements in the
implementation of programmes across all priority
areas, there are still areas that require our urgent
attention.
As regional leaders, we have a responsibility to
prioritise the needs of our people and find lasting
and sustainable solutions to poverty , inequality and
underdevelopment. That is why the 37th SADC
Summit, held last year in Pretoria, adopted the theme
of “Partnering with the Private Sector in Developing
Industry and Regional Value Chains”.
Member states were urged to operationalise
the theme through implementation of projects
in the focus areas of agro-processing, mineral
beneficiation, energy and pharmaceuticals.
Members states were also called upon to work
to develop skills and create mechanisms for the
involvement of the private sector .
South Africa hosted the second SADC Industrialisation
Week during 2017, which created a platform for
targeted engagement with the private sector and
deepened the focus on key investment opportunities
in the region.
The Industrialisation Week that was recently held
in Windhoek is a further testimony to our collective
efforts to strengthen public-private partnerships
within our region.
Over the period of our Chairship, we have been able
to secure more than US$500 million of committed
productive investments by South African companies
in each of the priority value chains across the
region. The investments cover forestry , agriculture
and agro-processing, fertilisers, mining and mineral
processing, and pharmaceuticals. They reflect South
Africa’s commitment to moving from a trade-based
to an investment-led development strategy for the
region.
The previous summit directed the Secretariat to
facilitate the establishment of a regional Natural Gas
Committee to promote the inclusion of gas in the
regional energy mix.
The Terms of Reference on the Working Group for the
Inter-State Natural Gas Committee were approved,
culminating in the signing of a Statement of Intent
on Cooperation on the Development of Regional Gas
Market and Infrastructure during the joint meeting of
SADC ministers responsible for energy and water in
June 2018
There have been a number of concrete initiatives
over the last year that now form part of the SADC
work programme:
• The framework model on the control and
management of the fall army worm is being rolled
out with the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
Capacity-building workshops have been held in
Mozambique, Madagascar and Zambia.
• A programme to develop capacity in industrial
policymaking has been initiated, with South
Africa hosting a SADC Industrial Policy for
Policymakers Training Programme in September
2017 as a pilot initiative.
• The SADC Integrated Regional Electronic
Settlement System has gained significant
momentum, establishing a firm platform for
increased intra-SADC trade and investment
and further strengthening regional financial
integration.
• The SADC Energy Foresight and Assessment
Study in support of the SADC Industrialisation
Strategy and Roadmap is underway , with data
having been gathered from six of the member
states.
• A SADC Engineering Needs and Numbers Study
is close to completion. It aims to obtain a better
understanding of the engineering capacities in
the SADC region to allow for better planning and
implementation of infrastructure programmes.
• As part of World Food Day , a model has been
developed for regional food security . The model
will be launched during this year’s World Food
Day in Namibia.
• Progress has been made in addressing
tuberculosis in the mining sector across 10 SADC
countries. More than 10 000 claimants received
payment and one-stop service centres were
opened in Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique
and eSwatini, thereby increasing access of ex-
mineworkers to decentralised services.
• The shared procurement of essential medicines
and commodities in SADC has been identified as
a priority with the aim to establish an autonomous
non-profit organisation called the SADC Pooled
Procurement Services.
• The Medicines Regulatory Harmonisation Project
is focussing on establishing and strengthening
regional and subregional networks of regulatory
authorities.
• The implementation of Phase III of the SADC
Roam-Like-At-Home Initiative began in
October 2017. This entails the development of
a harmonised cost model for wholesale and
retail roaming tariffs to be used by all national
regulatory authorities in SADC.
• A task team was appointed to work on a framework
to operationalise the SADC Declaration on the
Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Your Excellencies,
Over the years, SADC member states have
acknowledged that the private sector should play
a leading role in creating jobs, driving trade and
industrialisation and fostering regional integration.

24 25
We therefore need to ensure that we create a
conducive environment for business to thrive, and to
deepen our engagement with the private sector .
Collaboration with the private sector is important
not only in designing SADC regional strategies and
initiatives, but also in identifying impediments to
greater regional economic integration. The ability of
SADC countries to establish a competitive industrial
sector and promote greater industrial linkages has
been hindered by the lack of infrastructure in areas
such as energy , transport and communications.
Regional cooperation in the development of
infrastructure will lower transaction costs, enhance
regional markets and make production and exports
more competitive.
Investment in infrastructure must therefore be a central
priority . Through our joint efforts, the region has now
established a healthy pipeline of bankable projects,
which we now need to see through to completion.
The region remains peaceful and stable, underlining
the value of the successful mediation and conflict-
prevention strategies undertaken by member states
in collaboration with the SADC Secretariat.
We should continue to be guided by adherence to
democratic values and practices, good governance
and credible and regular national elections. The
consolidation of democracy and the elevation of
the rule of law across the region are a sign of the
improved effectiveness of our regional institutions
and mechanisms. Parliamentary democracy is at the
centre of our collective mission to give expression to
the will of the people.
Our colleagues in the SADC Parliamentary Forum
have indicated their readiness to transform the forum
into a SADC Parliament. The establishment of a
SADC Parliament is therefore a matter to which we
need to give due consideration.
With the expiration of both the Regional Indicative
Strategic Plan and the Strategic Indicative Plan for
the Organ by the end of 2020, SADC needs to begin
formulating a long-term vision and a strategic plan, in
line with the decision of the June 2012 Summit.
It should identify where the region wants to be by
2050, and should direct our resources and mobilise
our people towards the achievement of our shared
goals. We should aim to have the strategy presented
at our summit in 2019.
Your Excellencies,
Our region offers a young demographic and
growing consumer class and great opportunities for
industrialisation. We need to harness the youthfulness
of our region to develop our human capital, speed
up economic growth and foster sustainability .
There are an increasing number of young
entrepreneurs who are exploring a range of business
possibilities. We need to support them by promoting
the development of small businesses, creating
vocational training programmes and preparing
them with the skills they need for a rapidly changing
economy . Key to realising this, is the introduction of
regional centres of excellence and specialisation,
which can equip the youth with skills and expertise.
The growth and diffusion of digital technologies is
another key area which SADC needs to promote to
secure the future of its people. The digital economy
is an increasingly important driver of economic
growth and can play a significant role in accelerating
development, enhancing productivity of existing
industries, cultivating new markets and industries,
and achieving inclusive, sustainable growth.
Many countries are increasingly embracing
innovation and using information and communications
technology (ICT) to deliver public services and
involve people in decision-making processes. The
ICT sector is powering growth and change in areas
such as banking, retail, health, education and
entertainment.
While the economic potential associated with the
digital economy is undoubtedly significant, not all
countries are equally equipped to capitalise on such
opportunities.
It is therefore critical that digital cooperation should
be an important part of our regional integration
agenda. Progressing towards a digital economy
is a critical step in the region’s path to sustainable
development.
A regional strategy for a digital economy would
include the promotion of digital innovations and
technologies, sharing experiences on e-government,
promoting e-commerce, promoting regional digital
payments, strengthening broadband infrastructure,
building cloud computing infrastructure and moving
towards a digital single market.
Excellencies,
In conclusion, I wish to acknowledge the role played
by the SADC Executive Secretary , Dr Stergomena
Lawrence Tax, her deputies and the staff of the SADC
Secretariat for their dedication and commitment in
ensuring that SADC continues to pursue its mandate.
SADC continues to cherish the collaboration and
support of our international cooperating partners,
who continue to make a significant contribution
towards sustainable development in our region.
I wish to thank Your Excellencies for the confidence
you placed in South Africa during the period of our
Chairship.
When we took the baton from our predecessor , His
Majesty King Mswati III of the Kingdom of eSwatini,
we chose a theme that builds on the foundation laid
by previous chairs.
I have no doubt that with His Excellency Hage
Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia, at
the helm of our organisation, the SADC integration
agenda will be advanced even further .
I wish all of us very productive deliberations.
It gives me great pleasure to hand over the Chairship
of SADC to his Excellency , Dr Hage Geingob,
President of the Republic of Namibia.
I thank you.

26 27
CHAPTER 2
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE BRAZIL, RUSSIA,
INDIA, CHINA AND SOUTH AFRICA (BRICS) FORUM

28 29
CHAPTER 2
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE BRAZIL, RUSSIA, INDIA, CHINA
AND SOUTH AFRICA (BRICS) FORUM

Opening remarks by Minister Lindiwe Sisulu at the Meeting of the BRICS Ministers of Foreign
Affairs/International Relations, OR Tambo Building, Pretoria, 4 June 2018
Honourable State Councillor Mr Wang Yi, State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs of China,
Honourable Minister , Mr Sergey Lavrov , Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia,
Honourable Minister , Ms Sushma Swaraj, Minister of External Affairs of India,
Honourable Ambassador Marcos Galvão, Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil,
Delegations of the BRICS Countries here present,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
statesman and father of our nation. We are excessively
proud that out of a deplorable inhuman system, we
produced one as he. The life of this remarkable
human being urges us to recall that nothing is
impossible to achieve, no matter the magnitude of
the task and irrespective of how daunting it may
seem at the time.
South Africa’s BRICS Chairship in 2018 is thus
anchored in this belief. We intend to build on the
legacy of Madiba, as well as on the achievements
of the past decade of BRICS summits in order to
further enhance BRICS cooperation in the next
decade that will guide our countries and peoples,
as well as those of the Global South into the new
era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in a way that
maximises opportunities and minimises threats, and
especially in an era where we all seek prosperity
for all, inclusivity , equality , good governance and
economic development.
We remain conscious, however , that the prospects
of inclusive growth and shared prosperity that we
strive for , cannot, and will not, be realised in the
absence of lasting regional and international peace
and security .
Colleagues, I am encouraged that this platform has
gained momentum, and I am excited that we are
hosting it. We are committed to make the summit
worthy of what our peoples collectively expect from
us. I look forward to our robust deliberations.
I thank you.
It is my sincere honour to welcome you to South
Africa on the eve of the Second Formal Meeting of
the BRICS Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International
Relations. Honourable Ministers, your presence here
reaffirms and strengthens the long-standing bonds
of friendship and cooperation we have built in the
decade of our strategic partnership.
Over the last 10 years, the BRICS Agenda has
evolved and expanded beyond the economic focus
that initially brought us together , to also include global
political, security and social matters.
There can be no doubt that our shared commitment
to BRICS will bear fruit and we will make advances in
confronting our common challenges and realising our
common objectives for peace, harmony and greater
representation in global governance institutions.
Following the successful First Formal Meeting of the
BRICS Ministers of Foreign Affairs and International
Relations, organised by the People’s Republic of
China last year , I think we can all agree that there is a
need for the continuation of a meeting of this nature.
We should acknowledge the initiative as a very
sound one that has given us more time to plan better
and work closer . Through this forum, we are uniquely
poised to make further concrete contributions to
BRICS cooperation through our deliberations.
Furthermore, the current global geopolitical realities
make a meeting of this nature not only necessary but
timely . We meet in the face of multilateralism under
siege; when the integrity of international agreements
can be hastily and expediently compromised; when
more and more countries take an inward-looking
position at the expense of others. South Africa
remains deeply committed to multilateral diplomacy ,
in principle and in our demonstrable actions – and
we hold true to this stance in the United Nations
system; in our regional interactions, and in particular
through our close collaboration in BRICS.
The BRICS Forum must reassert its collective
responsibility of providing new perspectives and
solutions to the current international order .  As we
work collectively , not only in our interest but in
also advancing the interests of our shared global
community , we must do so with a view to protect
the sacred and shared values of multilateralism and
international law that underpin our union.
We meet at a time when the world is undergoing
serious seismic changes in many spheres. The strife
in Turkey , the migration to Europe, the intensification
of conflict between Israel and Palestine and the re-
emergence of national protectionism that threatens
multilateralism. Against these challenges, we each face
our own national challenges and our own continental
challenges. We have earned our place of pride in this
august body to represent the broader interests of the
peoples and countries of the African continent.
The evolving world in which we live requires of us
to keep track with its multifaceted and dynamic
changes.  We are also beholden to our resolutions
and ensuring that we realise them in this changing
world. This year will mark the 10th anniversary of the
establishment of BRICS, the new multilateral forum
that holds the hope of most developing countries.
It is fortuitous for South Africa to hold the Chairship
of this august forum, and to have the responsibility
of hosting the 10th BRICS Summit in this year that
coincides with the centenary commemoration of
a world icon, former President Nelson Rolihlahla
Mandela. Throughout the year , we will honour the
life and legacy of our leader , a distinguished global
Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa during the Open Session of the 10th BRICS Summit,
Sandton International Convention Centre, Sandton, 26 July 2018
Your Excellency , President Temer ,
Your Excellency , President Putin,
Your Excellency , Prime Minister Modi,
Your Excellency , President Xi,
Honourable Ministers,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
From its formation, the BRICS partnership has had its
sights firmly set on the future. It is itself the product
of a rapidly changing world, which has seen the
emergence of new economies, the realignment
of old alliances and shifts in the balance of global
power .
It is therefore appropriate that at this moment in the
evolution of BRICS, we should focus on collaboration
for inclusive growth and shared prosperity in the
Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Quantum leaps in technology and innovation present
enormous opportunities for growth, development
and human progress. This surge in innovation has
the potential to dramatically improve productivity
and to place entire countries on a new trajectory of
prosperity .
It has the potential to solve many of the social
problems we face, by better equipping us to combat
disease, hunger and environmental degradation.
However , unless it is approached in a collaborative
manner , underpinned by a developmental agenda,
rapid technological change could merely serve to
entrench existing disparities within and between
countries.
It could also create new fault lines in our societies.
This places a great responsibility on all of us.
Through our collective effort, by working together ,
I am certain that we will be able to confront the
challenges and seize the opportunities that this new
age of development presents.
We proceed from the understanding that this is
not simply a digital revolution, but a fundamental
shift in the way people live, work and relate. It is a
phenomenon that cuts across all industries and
technologies. There is no area of economic activity
that is immune from technological disruption.
According to Professor Klaus Schwab of the World
Economic Forum (WEF), the Fourth Industrial
Revolution “is characterised by a fusion of

30 31
Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on the occasion of the Post-10th BRICS Summit Media
Briefing, 27 July 2018, Sandton
technologies that is blurring the lines between the
physical, digital and biological spheres”.
This means that our response needs to be
comprehensive and integrated. As BRICS countries,
we should not become mere adopters of new
technologies. Rather , we need to combine our
resources and expertise to become innovators. We
should not allow technology to shape our societies.
We must instead ensure that the needs of our
societies shape the technologies that we develop.
We must ensure that mastery of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution does not become the exclusive preserve
of just a handful of countries.
We must promote inclusivity , diversity and
cooperation.
Excellencies,
The technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution
provide developing and emerging economies with
the opportunity to leapfrog the technologies of the
preceding revolutions. The rapid adoption of mobile
telecommunications in Africa and other parts of the
developing world, for example, demonstrates how
innovation can ignite sudden bursts of development.
It demonstrates that, properly harnessed, new
technologies can ensure more efficient processes
and more reliable systems of service delivery . They
can expand economic participation by ensuring
that knowledge and information are more broadly
disseminated across the population.
To succeed, however , we need to equip our people
with the necessary skills to thrive in such a society
and in such an economy . The WEF predicts that the
three most important skills for an employee by 2020
will be complex problem-solving, critical thinking and
creativity .
Without adequate training, only a few emerging
economies will possess these skills in sufficient
numbers, while others will see their prospects stifled
by automation.
There is a need to develop more agile and applied
education models.
While this must start even before a child enters
primary school and continue right through to our
universities and colleges, there is an urgent need
in developing and emerging economies to re-skill a
significant portion of the current workforce.
Governments should formulate and institute policies
that are supportive of these processes.
Such policies should provide a favourable environment
for foreign investment in the development of new
sectors and technologies.
Such investment improves the supply of relevant
skills, expands the capacity for research and
development and contributes to an environment that
nurtures innovation. Equally important are policies
that support and stimulate local industries, especially
small, medium and micro enterprises.
It is against this backdrop that BRICS ministers of
industry resolved to establish the BRICS Partnership
on the New Industrial Revolution.
It aims to translate the vision of the second decade
of BRICS cooperation into reality through deepened
cooperation on industrialisation, innovation,
inclusiveness and investment. Under the partnership,
and in support of the manufacturing sector , a new
industrial revolution advisory group comprised of
policymakers and experts from all BRICS countries
will be established.
Excellencies,
As the BRICS Forum, we can neither ignore, nor take
for granted, the reality that is the Fourth Industrial
Revolution and the impact that it will have on the
global economy . As we enter the second Golden
Decade of BRICS, we need to look to the future and
place ourselves at the forefront of the extraordinary
changes that are taking place.
In conclusion, our officials must engage in robust
discussions to develop concrete actions. As a bloc,
we should use this opportunity to ensure that we fully
appreciate and exploit the opportunities presented
by this wondrous new age of technology in building a
brighter shared future for humanity .
I thank you.
We have just completed a successful 10th BRICS
Summit that was held from 25 to 27 July 2018 in
Sandton, South Africa, under the theme: “BRICS in
Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared
Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution”.
It was attended by the heads of state and
government of South Africa, Brazil, Russia, India and
China (BRICS), Rwanda, Ethiopia, Angola, Zambia,
Namibia, Senegal, Gabon, Togo, Uganda, Jamaica,
Argentina, Turkey , Botswana, Democratic Republic
of Congo, Lesotho, Madagascar , Malawi, Mauritius,
Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
The BRICS Summit took place during a period when
we are commemorating the centenary of the birth
of two of South Africa’s struggle icons, Tata Nelson
Mandela and Mama Albertina Sisulu. The values they
represent served as an inspiration for our discussion
on key issues affecting the international community ,
as well as the rich discussion with our outreach
partners.
The agenda of the BRICS Summit was extensive,
which is a direct reflection of the diversity and depth of
interaction between the five countries. We discussed
issues of mutual concern aimed at achieving
development, economic growth and prosperity , as
well as peace and security . We acknowledged that
we have travelled a remarkable path over the course
of the last 10 years and we remain committed to
growing our economies and improving the lives of
our peoples. We also highlighted our commitment to
building responsive, inclusive and collective solutions
to the world’s economic challenges, including
poverty , inequality and unemployment.
The BRICS countries are firmly in agreement on the
need to safeguard and strengthen multilateralism. In
this regard, we support the centrality of the United
Nations (UN) as the universal multilateral organisation
entrusted with the mandate for maintaining
international peace and security , advancing global
development and promoting and protecting human
rights, so as to build a brighter shared future for the
global community .
We reiterated in our discussions the strengthening of
multilateral institutions of global governance and the
need for comprehensive reform of the UN, including
the Security Council. We affirmed our commitment
to the World Trade Organisation to ensure a rules-
based, transparent, non-discriminatory , open and
inclusive multilateral trading system.
We are committed to the full implementation of the
UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals to
ensure equitable, inclusive, open, all-round,
innovation-driven and sustainable development. We
emphasise that the three dimensions of sustainable
development – economic, social and environmental
– should be addressed in a balanced and integrated
manner . We furthermore discussed the importance
of strengthening our cooperation to deal with the
challenges brought about by climate change and
assure the world of our commitment to the Paris
Agreement on Climate Change.
In respect of global security matters, we noted, with
concern, the challenges and threats faced by the
international community and committed to enhance
communication and cooperation among BRICS
countries in international fora. In this regard, we also
highlighted the need for BRICS countries to enhance
cooperation on peacekeeping matters.
It was evident from our discussions that we stand
united in our condemnation of terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations, wherever committed and
by whomsoever . In this regard, we are committed
to countering terrorism in accordance with the
principles of international law.
We received a positive report from the BRICS
Business Council on its activities since September
2017 and we commend them and the BRICS
Business Forum for their collective efforts toward
strengthening economic cooperation in infrastructure,
manufacturing, energy , agriculture, financial services,
e-commerce, alignment of technical standards and
skills development.
During our deliberations, we also reaffirmed our
commitment to BRICS industrial cooperation,
including on industrial capacities and policies, new
industrial infrastructure and standards, as well as
small, micro and medium-sized enterprises (SMMEs).

32
We noted that the notion of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution sets us on a path to further development
in key sectors of information and communications
technology (ICT), digitisation and the growth of
SMMEs. We therefore committed to jointly seize the
myriad of opportunities presented by the Fourth
Industrial Revolution. While recognising the potential
positive impact of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,
we are also aware of the growth of the criminal
misuse of ICTs and in this regard, reiterated the need
to develop an international universal legally binding
instrument on combatting criminal use of ICTs within
the UN.
In continuation of the BRICS tradition of Outreach,
first initiated by South Africa during its first tenure
as BRICS Chair in 2013, the BRICS leaders met
with African leaders, including the chairpersons of
the African Union (AU), of the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) heads of state and
government of the recognised regional economic
communities and of the AU Commission, as well as
with the Southern African Development Community
leaders. Following the BRICS Plus initiative of China
in 2017, we also met with leaders of the Global
South, namely Argentina as G20 Chair , Jamaica as
Caribbean Community Chair and Turkey as Chair of
the Organisation of the Islamic Conference.
In this regard, our discussions represented a
continuation of the 2013 BRICS-Africa discussions,
wherein BRICS pledged to support African
development, industrialisation and infrastructure
development, as contained in the NEPAD
programmes and the AU’s Agenda 2063. There was
also discussion around the implementation of the
UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and
the building of broad partnerships for development.
The rationale behind this engagement is to create
a platform for greater interaction and partnerships
among countries of the Global South to shape the
agenda to effect changes in the global economy ,
notably for (i) development and economic growth
through trade and investment integration, and
(ii) cooperation in global governance financial,
economic and political institutions.
In seeking to improve the lives of our people,
we endorsed the initiative of enhancing BRICS
cooperation in health through the establishment of a
BRICS Vaccine Centre, which is key in the promotion
of research and development of medicines and
diagnostic tools to end epidemics and to facilitate
access to safe, effective, quality and affordable
essential medicines.
Having recognised the potential inherent in the
tourism sector for all the BRICS countries, and the
need to foster enhanced people-to-people relations
among our five countries, we have endorsed the
establishment of a BRICS Tourism Track within BRICS.
The promotion of tourism is essential to addressing
the triple challenges of unemployment, inequality
and poverty , which are common to all our countries.
In this regard, we welcomed the establishment of the
BRICS Tourism Track as it is key to fostering inclusive
and sustainable development.
Women must play an integral role in society , and we
dedicated ourselves to ensuring their full participation
in the economy and society . The BRICS members are
in agreement on the important economic benefit to
be derived from the socio-economic empowerment
of women, particularly in developing countries. In
support of this ideal, we agreed on the establishment
of a BRICS Women’s Forum.
The following agreements were signed during the
course of the summit:
• Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on
Collaborative Research on Distributed Ledger
and Blockchain Technology in the Context of the
Development of the Digital Economy
• MoU on BRICS Regional Aviation Partnership
• Agreement for Establishment of the Regional
Office of the New Development Bank for the
Americas in the City of São Paulo, Brazil.
We concluded our deliberations with the adoption
of the Johannesburg Declaration and Action
Plan, which highlight the great strides that BRICS
has made in terms of establishing institutional
mechanisms for tangible cooperation. We look
forward to strengthening our collaboration as we
usher in the Second Decade of BRICS Strategic
Cooperation.

34 35
CHAPTER 3
SOUTH AFRICA AS MEMBER OF THE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL (UNSC) 2019 – 2020, THE UNVEILING OF THE MANDELA
STATUE, THE NELSON MANDELA PEACE SUMMIT
AND THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Continuing the Legacy:
Working for a Just and Peaceful World
South Africa – Member of the United Nations
Security Council 2019 – 2020
South Africa in the United Nations Security Council

36 37
CHAPTER 3
SOUTH AFRICA AS MEMBER OF THE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (UNSC)
2019 – 2020, UNVEILING OF THE MANDELA STATUE, THE NELSON MANDELA PEACE SUMMIT
AND THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Media remarks by the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu,
following South Africa’s election to the Non-Permanent Seat in the UNSC, 8 June 2018
Excellencies,
Delegates,
Members of the Media,
We wish to express our sincere appreciation to the member states of the UN General Assembly for supporting
South Africa’s candidacy for the Non-Permanent Seat on the Security Council for the period 2019 to 2020.
We are honoured and humbled by this gesture of
confidence.
As you will know, this will be South Africa’s third term
on the UNSC having previously served in 2007 to
2008 and 2011 to 2012. Our tenure in the Security
Council will be dedicated to the legacy of President
Nelson Mandela and his commitment to peace. In
marking his centenary this year , a Summit on Peace
will be held on the eve of the 73rd Session of the UN
General Assembly in September .
South Africa will use its tenure in the Security Council
to promote the maintenance of international peace
and security through advocating for the peaceful
settlement of disputes and inclusive dialogue. We
will continue to enhance close cooperation between
the UNSC and other regional and subregional
organisations. During our two previous tenures, we
advocated for closer cooperation between the UNSC
and the African Union Peace and Security Council,
which culminated in the adoption of the landmark
Resolution in 2012 on strengthening cooperation
between these two bodies.
South Africa’s diplomatic efforts over the past two
decades include conflict resolution, prevention,
mediation, peacekeeping and peacebuilding.
We firmly believe that, while we must strengthen the
tools at the Security Council’s disposal in addressing
conflicts as they arise, the focus should be on
preventative diplomacy and on addressing the root
causes of conflicts.
We believe that peace cannot be achieved
without the participation of women in peace
negotiations, peacekeeping operations, post-
conflict peacebuilding and governance. During our
tenure, we will ensure that a gender perspective is
mainstreamed into all Security Council resolutions in
line with UNSC Resolution 1325 (2000) on Women,
Peace and Security .
As we assume the Non-Permanent Seat, we look
forward to collaborating with the members of the
Security Council in promoting the maintenance of
international peace and security and the social well-
being and advancement of all the peoples of the
world.
We are guided by the Resolution of the AU to
“Silence the Guns” by 2020. Only when we have
peace and a culture of peace, can we have
sustainable development and we in Africa need
that and resources most. Our energies now have
to be directed at the betterment of the lives of our
people.
Statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa following the UNSC elections, 8 June 2018
The UN General Assembly has today , Friday , 8 June
2018, elected South Africa to serve in the UNSC for
the term 2019 to 2020 as a non-permanent member .
This will be the third time that South Africa will be
serving in the Security Council since the dawn of
democracy in 1994. We are humbled and honoured
by the confidence the international community has
demonstrated in our capability to contribute to the
resolution of global challenges.
We express our unreserved gratitude and
appreciation to the Southern African Development
Community that nominated us and our continental
body , the African Union (AU), which  endorsed our
candidature.
The overwhelming support South Africa received
from members of the UN is significant in the year
of the centenary of the birth of our global icon and
the founding father of our nation, President Nelson
Mandela. This election comes after a unanimous
resolution by members of the UN to convene a Global
Peace Summit in honour of President Mandela to be
held in September 2018.
South Africa will use its membership of the UNSC
in 2019 and 2020 to advance the interests of Africa,
particularly the priorities of the AU Agenda 2063.
UNVEILING OF THE MANDELA STATUE
Remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the unveiling of the Nelson Mandela Statue,
UN General Assembly, 24 September 2018, New York, United States of America
Your Excellency , the President of the General Assembly ,
Your Excellency , the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Your Excellencies and Your Majesties,
Distinguished Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
South Africa’s tenure will be guided by our commitment
to resolve regional, global and international conflicts
and promote inclusive growth as part of the effort
to ensure a better Africa in a better world. We are
committed to addressing the root causes of conflict,
including inequality and underdevelopment, and
promoting inclusive political dialogue.
South Africa remains deeply concerned about the
emergence of unilateralism and its attendant threat
to the international rules-based system. South Africa
reaffirms the centrality of the UN Charter and the
primacy of the UNSC on issues of international
peace and security .
We reaffirm our commitment to enhancing
cooperation between the UN and regional and
subregional organisations in matters relating to the
maintenance of international peace and security .
This will include the strengthening of effective
partnerships between the UNSC and the AU Peace
and Security Council. We reaffirm our commitment
to the peaceful resolution of global disputes and
the advancement of inclusive development in
accordance with the UN Charter and international
law.
For the Government and people of South Africa, the
enthusiasm with which the international community
has embraced the celebration of the centenary of
the birth of Nelson Mandela is truly humbling.
The people of our country , united in their diversity ,
revere Nelson Mandela as the founding father of
our democratic nation – whose life, sacrifices and
extraordinary contribution to freedom continue to
inspire successive generations.
For those of us gathered here at the UN, Nelson
Mandela will forever hold a special place in our
hearts because of his dedication to the service of
humanity and the promotion of peace throughout
the world.

38 39
The values by which he lived and to which he
dedicated his life are universal.
We are honoured and grateful that the Nelson
Mandela Peace Summit has been convened in his
memory .
Your Excellency , Secretary-General António Guterres,
It gives me great pleasure to present to you and the
UN, on behalf of the Government and the people of
South Africa, this life-size statue of President Nelson
Mandela.
We recall with great appreciation and gratitude the
leading role of the UN in championing the struggle
of the South African people against apartheid and in
calling for the release of Nelson Mandela and other
political prisoners.
President Mandela firmly believed that the UN was
the most valuable and effective instrument for the
advancement of peace, development and equality
that humanity had conceived.
We trust that this statue will remain a constant
reminder to the international community of the
dedication of Nelson Mandela to the mission of
the UN and a constant affirmation of South Africa’s
commitment to contribute to a better world for all.
I thank you.
UNITED NATIONS (UN) NELSON MANDELA PEACE SUMMIT, 24 SEPTEMBER 2018
 Political Declaration adopted at the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit
The General Assembly adopts the following political declaration:
We, Heads of State and Government and
representatives of States and Governments, meet
at the United Nations Headquarters in New York on
24 September 2018, at the Nelson Mandela Peace
Summit to reflect on global peace, in honour of the
centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela.
1.  We salute his qualities of humility , forgiveness
and compassion, his values and his dedication
to the service of humanity , as a humanitarian, in
the fields of conflict resolution, disarmament, race
relations, the promotion and protection of human
rights, reconciliation, gender equality , the rights of
children and people in vulnerable situations, as
well as the upliftment of poor and underdeveloped
communities. We acknowledge his contribution to
the struggle for democracy internationally and the
promotion of a culture of peace throughout the
world.
2.  We commit to redouble our efforts to build a just,
peaceful, prosperous, inclusive and fair world,
and to revive the values for which Nelson Mandela
stood by placing human dignity at the centre
of our actions. We commit to demonstrating
mutual respect, tolerance, understanding and
reconciliation in our relations.
3.  We recognize that the world has changed
significantly since the founding of the United
Nations, and acknowledge that global peace
eludes us to this day . We, the leaders of the
world today , more than ever assume a special
responsibility for our words and actions in shaping
a world free of fear and want. Conflict is born out
of the minds of humanity , and we are the people
who can find sustainable solutions to bring a
lasting peace, today and for future generations.
We recognize the importance of our addressing
threats to global peace and security , including
challenges to the primacy of multilateralism.
4.  We reaffirm the purposes and principles of the
Charter of the United Nations and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights that serve as our
common and universal vision. As we observe the
70th Anniversary of the Declaration, we recall
its foundational principle that all human beings
are born free and equal in dignity and rights,
and are endowed with reason and conscience
and should act towards one another in a spirit of
brotherhood.
5.  We also reaffirm our commitment to uphold the
sovereign equality of all States, respect for their
territorial integrity and political independence
and the duty of Member States to refrain in
their international relations from the threat or
use of force in any manner inconsistent with the
purposes and principles of the United Nations,
and to uphold the resolution of disputes by
peaceful means and in conformity with the
principles of justice and international law, the
right to self-determination of peoples which
remain under colonial domination or foreign
occupation, non-interference in the internal
affairs of States, respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms, respect for the equal
rights of all without distinction as to race, sex,
language or religion, international cooperation in
solving international problems of an economic,
social, cultural or humanitarian character and
the fulfilment in good faith of the obligations
assumed in accordance with the Charter .
6.  We recognize that peace and security ,
development and human rights are the pillars of
the United Nations system and the foundations
for collective security and well-being, and
recognize that development, peace and security
and human rights are interlinked and mutually
reinforcing.
7.  We reaffirm the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and recognize that eradicating
poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including
extreme poverty , is the greatest global challenge
and an indispensable requirement for sustainable
development. We remain committed to achieving
sustainable development in its three dimensions
– economic, social and environmental – in a
balanced and integrated manner . Sustainable
development cannot be realized without peace
and security , and peace and security will be at
risk without sustainable development. We reaffirm
our pledge that no one will be left behind.
8.  We recognize that respect for the inherent dignity
and the equal and inalienable rights, as well as
the fundamental freedoms, of all members of
the human family is the foundation of inclusivity ,
justice and peace in the world. We declare that
racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance represent the very opposite
of the noble purposes of the United Nations. We
recognize that tolerance of cultural, ethnic, racial
and religious diversity is essential for lasting
peace, understanding and friendship among
peoples, nations, civilizations, cultures and
individuals. We all constitute one human family .
We therefore commit to not let our differences
limit our common purpose and universal vision,
to build on what unites us and explore creative
ways to bridge what divides us.
9.  We resolve to move beyond words in the promotion
of peaceful, just, inclusive and non-discriminatory
societies, stressing the importance of the equal
participation and full involvement of women and
the meaningful participation of youth in all efforts
for the maintenance and promotion of peace and
security , and to redouble our efforts to ensure
that women, youth and children are free from all
forms of violence, fear , discrimination and abuse.
10.  We recognize the contribution of women to the
advancement of societies and their contribution
to the prevention and resolution of conflicts
at different levels. We are committed to the
promotion and protection of, and respect for , the
human rights of all women and girls, working to
ensure full gender equality and the elimination of
all forms of discrimination and violence against
women and girls, as well as empowering them to
realize their full potential.
11.  We resolve to ensure the protection, rights and
well-being of children, especially in armed
conflict, so they can realize their dreams and grow
up without fear , discrimination and exclusion.
Protecting children contributes to breaking the
cycle of violence and sows the seeds for future
peace.
12.  We affirm the responsibility of each individual
State to protect its population from genocide,
war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against
humanity , and recognize the need to mobilize the
collective wisdom, capabilities and political will
of the international community to encourage and

40 41
help States to exercise this responsibility at their
request. We need to strengthen our capacities to
prevent, contain or end conflicts in accordance
with the Charter and international law.
13. We acknowledge the incontrovertible truth that
conflict is in all ways more costly than preventive
diplomacy . No effort should be spared to settle
conflicts through peaceful means. We therefore
express our full support for the work of the United
Nations and strive to support peace processes,
conflict prevention and resolution efforts,
peacebuilding and post-conflict reconstruction
and development.
14.  We encourage parties to armed conflict to take
immediate, concrete measures to end cycles of
conflict and to prevent relapse. We recognize
the role of multiple actors in armed conflict,
including non-State actors, and urge all parties to
comply with their obligations under international
law, including international humanitarian law. We
declare our good offices available to those who
need them.
15.  We recognize that there is no single template for
peace, but there is a long and varied history of
the successful and unsuccessful resolution of
conflicts that can serve as best practices for the
negotiated settlement and peaceful resolution of
conflicts. We commit to making available our best
practice to those who seek different models for
peace. Dialogue is key , and courage is needed
to take the first steps to build trust and gain
momentum. We therefore declare our full support
to good-faith negotiations.
16.  In this regard, we note that the United Nations
and regional and subregional organizations
have a multitude of tools and mechanisms
to support peace, and express our desire to
continue to review the effectiveness of the tools
at our disposal to address the armed conflicts
at hand. We commit to ensuring that lines of
communication are maintained between parties
during conflict resolution efforts to prevent
unnecessary escalation and loss of trust. We
commit to finding credible interlocutors to
engage with all the parties to an armed conflict
to ensure a just and lasting peace.
17.  We acknowledge that civil society can play an
important role in preventing conflicts, contributing
to peacebuilding and advancing efforts to sustain
peace. We also recognize that, depending on the
nature of the conflict, a wide range of good offices
exist that can play an important role across the
peace continuum, including current and former
Heads of State and Government, groups such as
the Elders, the African Union’s Panel of the Wise,
traditional leaders, religious leaders, cultural
leaders, community leaders, business leaders,
women’s and youth representatives, academics,
sports personalities and celebrities. Sports and
the arts in particular have the power to change
perceptions, prejudices and behaviours, as
well as to inspire people, break down racial and
political barriers, combat discrimination and
defuse conflict.
18.  We emphasize the importance of a
comprehensive approach to sustaining peace, in
particular by preventing conflict and addressing
its root causes, strengthening the rule of law
at the international and national levels and
promoting sustained and sustainable economic
growth, poverty eradication, social development,
sustainable development, national reconciliation
and unity , including through inclusive dialogue
and mediation, access to justice and transitional
justice, accountability , good governance,
democracy , accountable institutions, gender
equality , and respect for , and protection of,
human rights and fundamental freedoms. We
reaffirm the importance of national ownership
and leadership in peacebuilding, whereby the
responsibility for sustaining peace is broadly
shared by the Government and all other national
stakeholders.
19.  It is clear that lasting peace is not realized just by
the absence of armed conflict, but is achieved
through a continuing positive, dynamic, inclusive
and participatory process of dialogue and
engagement that resolves all outstanding issues
in a spirit of mutual respect and understanding,
cooperation and long-term vision. We recognize
that, to prevent the recurrence of crises and
ensure social cohesion, nation-building,
ownership and inclusiveness, ending impunity
and ensuring accountability , including through
international justice mechanisms, transitional
justice and reconciliation, are key to post-conflict
nation-building and development.
20.  We recognize that peacebuilding and sustaining
peace require significant post-conflict support
for moving towards recovery , reconstruction
and development. The cycle of conflict should
not be allowed to continue, including through
the unintended consequences of the premature
withdrawal of support and international attention.
Sustainable peace requires sustained attention,
commitment and investment.
21.  We welcome the example set by South Africa
in unilaterally dismantling its nuclear-weapon
programme and recall the firm plea made by
Nelson Mandela in favour of the total elimination
of nuclear weapons.
Our common humanity demands that we
make the impossible possible. We seek the
conversion of hearts and minds that can
make a difference for future generations. We
therefore:
22.  Recognize the period from 2019 to 2028 as
the Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace and call
upon all Member States to redouble their efforts
to pursue international peace and security ,
development and human rights in the Decade;
Member States are encouraged to continue
activities in support of the Nelson Mandela
Decade of Peace through voluntary contributions.
23.  Welcome the establishment of the United Nations
High-Level Advisory Board on Mediation and
encourage its further efforts and contribution
to the maintenance of international peace and
security and the prevention of armed conflicts,
including through the use of its good offices;
24.  Reaffirm the aims of the United Nations Nelson
Rolihlahla Mandela Prize and the United Nations
Prize in the Field of Human Rights, and encourage
the President of the General Assembly and the
Secretary-General to work together to raise
awareness of these prizes in order to strengthen
the recognition and celebration by the United
Nations of its values, purposes and principles,
which reflect the values for which Nelson Mandela
stood;
25.  Recommend, in the spirit of Nelson Mandela’s
legacy and recognizing the intergenerational
pledge of dignity and security which underpins
the Charter , that the United Nations explore
means to systematically consider the needs of
present and future generations, including through
intergenerational dialogue, in its decision-making
processes.
As we rise from the General Assembly today , we
collectively hold ourselves accountable to the values
and principles of the present declaration, to strive
for a just, peaceful, prosperous, democratic, fair ,
equitable and inclusive world. We call upon our
people to celebrate the richness of our diversity and
the collective creativity and wisdom of our elders,
and the well-being and survival of Mother Earth,
and call upon our youth, artists, sports personalities,
musicians and poets to breathe new life into the
values and principles of the United Nations.

42 43
Statement by María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés,
President of the 73rd Session of the UN General Assembly
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government,
Distinguished Ministers,
Mr Secretary-General,
Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The declaration reaffirms our commitment to the
sovereignty and sovereign equality of states, their
territorial integrity and their political independence.
Respect for state sovereignty and the self-
determination of peoples is the starting point for the
maintenance of peace and harmony among nations.
It is clear that we can uphold and respect self-
determination and the sovereignty of our countries
while also committing to collective and coordinated
action to build more peaceful, sustainable and
resilient societies. Madiba knew that there could be
no peace if millions were still without access to quality
education, healthcare and decent employment and if
there were still hunger and suffering. But such action
requires strong global leadership, which is so well
represented here this morning.
It is an honour for me to preside over this General
Assembly as we adopt a declaration that will
undoubtedly give hope to the world and that
reaffirms that, only through multilateralism and its
most important expression, the UN, will it be possible
to achieve the peace and security that we all yearn
for in the interests of development and prosperity .
The challenges we face in achieving peace are
many , and we must ask ourselves how we are going
to address them. Whether we act together or alone
and divided, the response is entirely in our hands.
Personally , I believe that we always need to work
together to make progress on the path towards
peace. There is no other option. As Nelson Mandela
said, “It always seems impossible until it is done.”
Excellencies,
As a Latin American poet said, “Some people
transcend death”. The gentle, wise face of Madiba
and his serene strength that transformed violence
into peace and aggression into forgiveness are alive
today , more than ever before.
I would like to extend a warm welcome to all of you
attending this summit.
Thank you.
It is an honour for me to be here with you today
to celebrate the centenary of the birth of Nelson
Mandela, one of the greatest leaders of our time.
A leader who taught us that it is possible to forgive,
that it is possible to make reconciliation and peace
prevail over hatred and revenge.
 
I would like to acknowledge the presence of
Dr  Helena Ndume of Namibia, who was awarded
the first-ever Nelson Mandela Prize alongside the
former President of Portugal, Jorge Sampaio, who
unfortunately could not join us today . Their efforts to
provide inclusive access to healthcare and education
are an inspiration and they honour Nelson Mandela’s
legacy in today’s world.
Excellencies,
The extraordinary legacy of Nelson Mandela lives on
today more than ever , five years after his death.
Mandela was always guided by the principles
underpinning the UN. He represented the values
of peace, solidarity , cooperation and respect for
all human beings, regardless of their race, political
views or religious beliefs. Mandela once said: “For to
be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to
live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom
of others”.
I had the privilege of meeting President Mandela
during the Rio+10 Summit, held in Johannesburg in
2002. Madiba’s love for South Africa was reflected
in his eyes. His profound respect for human dignity
permeated his interactions with those around him.
Mandela refused to accept the injustices of his time
and, as a result, his legacy represents a beacon
of hope for a world still ravaged by conflict and
suffering.
Excellencies,
The threat of the proliferation of chemical and
biological weapons still looms large. Tensions
between nuclear-weapon states, territorial disputes,
ethnic conflict and oppression of minorities persist.
This bleak outlook poses a serious threat to peace
and security and is one that we must tackle and
resolve together .
We are at a point where certain principles and values
enshrined in the Charter of the UN have been called
into question. The very principle of multilateralism is
being challenged. There are fears about our capacity
for collective action to address the most pressing
global issues, such as poverty , hunger , climate
change, conflict and war .
A move away from multilateralism would jeopardise
the future of our species and of our planet.
The world needs a social contract based on shared
responsibility , and the only space we have to achieve
this global compact is the UN. That is why this year I
am calling on the international community to reaffirm
its commitment to the founding principles of the UN
and to multilateralism.
And the UN General Assembly is the most
representative and most legitimate forum for dialogue
and reconciliation aimed at building collective peace
and security .
 
Excellencies,
The political declaration that we will adopt today ,
thanks to the commitment of states and the wise
leadership of South Africa and Ireland, demonstrates
the central role played by this forum in achieving
global agreements for peace and security in the
world.
The declaration represents a reinvigoration of
our commitment to peace and a renewal of the
willingness of states to build a peaceful, prosperous,
inclusive and fair world, and it calls on us to reflect
on the thousands of victims of the conflicts around
the world who need immediate help from us, states.
Remarks by António Guterres,
Secretary-General of the UN
Nelson Mandela was one of humanity’s great
leaders. He embodied the highest values of the UN.
He devoted his life to serving his community – as
a lawyer , a prisoner of conscience, a peacemaker ,
President and a respected elder . He cherished the
ideal of a democratic and free society in which
all people live together in equality and harmony . 
 
This was a bedrock cause for which he was prepared
to fight and die.

He faced his oppressors in court, knowing they had
the power of life and death, and he refused to back
down. 

As a political prisoner , he steadfastly refused to allow
his dignity to be undermined, and he became a
rallying point for a global movement that led to the
dismantling of the apartheid regime.
The role played by the UN is a milestone in our proud
history .
As President of South Africa, Madiba championed
women’s rights and South Africa’s landmark 1996
Constitution, which remains a beacon for human
rights and equal opportunity .
Under his leadership, South Africa expanded access
to healthcare, education, housing, water , sanitation
and electricity .

And, beyond South Africa’s borders, Madiba was a
profound influence for peace and democracy .

For example, in Burundi, he played a key role in
brokering the Arusha Agreement for Peace and
Reconciliation.

And, everywhere, he was a champion for peace,
forgiveness, humility , compassion and dignity and
human rights.

This year , we mark the 70th anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

44 45
Almost exactly 20 years ago, Nelson Mandela spoke
about that landmark document in this hall.

He urged all leaders to “have the courage to ensure
that, at last, we build a human world consistent with
the provisions of that historic declaration”. Those
were the words of Nelson Mandela.

Today , with human rights under growing pressure
around the world, we would be well served by
reflecting on the example of this outstanding man.

We need to face the forces that threaten us with the
wisdom, courage and fortitude that Nelson Mandela
embodied.

This is the only way to build the just, peaceful and
prosperous world envisioned in the UN Charter , the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development.

Madiba was a global citizen whose legacy must
continue to guide us.

To honour this legacy , the Government of South
Africa has generously donated a statue of Madiba
that I was honoured to unveil this morning.
For these noble ideas to be realised, however , they
needed to find expression in the actions of those who
took up the mantle of leadership at the most trying of
times.
One such leader was born in the small village of
Mvezo in the eastern parts of South Africa in 1918.
He would come to represent the hopes of millions
of South Africans who dreamt of a life unshackled
from a system that would limit their potential and
stifle their possibilities based merely on the shade
of their skin.
The story of South Africa’s transition from apartheid
to democracy , and the role played by leaders such
as Nelson Mandela, is well known.
It is a story about humanity’s great capacity for
goodness and hope.
It was this capacity that led to the establishment of
the UN, which served as an important platform for
the anti-apartheid movement, and which continues to
be a platform for other struggles against oppression,
war and global injustice.
Since the formation of the UN, the world has been
faced with several crises that have tested the limits
of diplomacy and the multilateral system.
Throughout these crises, the UN has endured as a
force for stability and cooperation, and the peaceful
resolution of conflict.
While it has done much to ensure that the world would
never go to war with itself again, the organisation
faces more intricate and complex challenges.
Over the past seven decades, millions of people
worldwide have been killed, maimed, displaced and
starved as a result of war and conflicts.
Of these, women and children continue to bear a
disproportionate burden.
While we have managed to avoid another world war ,
we continue to grapple with the haunting spectre of
modern atrocities such as the genocides in Rwanda
and Srebrenica.
We are confronted by intra-state armed conflicts
in Syria, South Sudan and Yemen; the protracted
In 2015, the UN also decided to award the Nelson
Mandela Prize every five years to two individuals who
have made significant contributions to the service of
humanity .

The first recipients were Namibian philanthropic eye
surgeon Helena Ndume and my good friend Jorge
Sampaio, former President of Portugal.

Each year , we also observe Nelson Mandela
International Day by promoting and engaging in
community service.

Today , we remember a man of great wisdom, quiet
dignity and towering achievement, who worked
tirelessly for peace and human dignity for people
everywhere.

This is our organisation’s purpose and – as leaders –
it is our responsibility .

Let us commit to build on Nelson Mandela’s
legacy so that all people everywhere can enjoy
peace, prosperity and inclusive and sustainable
development.

Thank you.
Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa
Madam María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, President of the 73rd Session of the General Assembly ,
Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Gutteres,
Your Majesties,
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
On behalf of the Mandela family and the people
of South Africa, allow me to express our humble
appreciation to the UN for convening this special
summit in honour of the founding President of our
democracy , Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela.
In 1994, during his inaugural address to the UN
General Assembly , President Mandela said:
“The great challenge of our age to the United Nations
Organisation is to answer the question – given the
interdependence of the nations of the world, what is
it that we can and must do to ensure that democracy ,
peace and prosperity prevail everywhere!”
The signing of the UN Charter over 70 years ago,
took place in a world very different from our own.
It was a world still reeling from the clash of great
powers in the Second World War that cost the lives
of close to 5% of the world’s population at the time.
It is from this collective trauma that the UN was born.
Countries sought to re-imagine a world where nations
would cooperate rather than clash, and where friendly
relations would lead to social progress, development
and a better life for all.
turmoil in Somalia and other parts of the African
continent; and struggles for self-determination in
Western Sahara and Palestine.
These reveal that the current threats to international
peace and security result more from conflicts within
states and the effect that these have across nations
that have become increasingly interdependent,
rather than the traditional conflicts between states.
Terrorism, transnational organised crime, illicit flows
of finance and the growing number of refugees pose
significant threats to global order .
No longer can we ignore the troubles of those in
distant parts of the world, or fail to address the root
causes of conflicts we often imagine are foreign to
us.
To respond to these threats, we need a UN that
is responsive, adaptable and able to deal with
challenges its founders could not have imagined.
It should not rely merely on the political interests of a
few, as an impasse between the major powers often
impedes the entire organisation’s ability to act.
Instead, we should draw on the strength of the
collective in resolving complex challenges.
The UN can only succeed to the degree that we,
as global leaders, provide visionary leadership that
transcends our ideological differences and narrow
national interest.
Through this Peace Summit, the current generation
of global leadership is given an opportunity not only
to reflect on peace in the world, but to take those
measures necessary to end the wars that continue to
take millions of innocent lives.
We are called upon to act decisively to end the
exposure of women and children to untold suffering,
including displacement, torture, rape, mutilation and
murder .
We are called upon to ensure that women are
afforded a special role in peace negotiations, political
transition and in ensuring durable security .
We must be unanimous in our support for the work of
the UN Secretary-General and the Executive Director

46 47
for UN Women in ensuring that women take centre
stage on issues of peace and security and provide
leadership in peace operations.
We welcome efforts towards achieving equal
representation of women in leadership positions in
UN peace missions.
Madam President,
In our search for peace, we dare not ignore the
continued existence of weapons of mass destruction,
whose capacity for human devastation is too dreadful
to contemplate.
Twenty years ago, almost to the day , President
Mandela addressed the UN General Assembly for
the last time.
He said:
“We must ask a question, which might sound naïve to
those who have elaborated sophisticated arguments
to justify their refusal to eliminate these terrible and
terrifying weapons of mass destruction – why do
they need them anyway?”
To this day , his question has been met with no
satisfactory answer .
The truth is that there can be no justification for
the existence of weapons that carry with them the
potential to extinguish life on this planet.
We therefore applaud the adoption by the General
Assembly last year of the groundbreaking Treaty on
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
South Africa will soon deposit its instrument of
ratification of this historic treaty .
We call on all peace-loving states to ratify the
treaty so that it comes into force without delay .

As we strive for peace, we cannot escape the reality
that conflict and hostility have their roots in poverty ,
exclusion and marginalisation.
Unless we confront the conditions under which the
poor of the world live, we will not succeed in building
a peaceful and stable world.
Statement by President Miguel Diaz Canel of Cuba It is for this reason that the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development is also very much an
agenda for peace.
The Sustainable Development Goals entail a set of
interdependent objectives whose fulfilment would be
the ultimate act of conflict prevention.
We must ensure that the UN – in its form, operation
and orientation – is able to maintain international
peace and security , protect human rights and
achieve sustainable development for all.
Today , we are gathered as world leaders, representing
the hopes of billions for a peaceful, prosperous
world.
It is the desire for such a world that prompted this
Peace Summit, to take stock of how the UN has
performed in the pursuit of peace.
It provides a moment for us as heads of state and
government to recommit ourselves to achieve the
social and economic development necessary for the
prevention of conflict.
It is an opportunity to pledge to each other and to our
people our determination to seek peaceful solutions
to our political differences; and to building peace in
those countries emerging from the destruction of
war , violence and the perpetuation of hate.
It is our deepest hope that this summit, in the name
of one of our greatest exemplars of humanity , serves
as a new dawn for the UN.
We hope the summit will give expression to the
Secretary-General’s call for a “surge in diplomacy”.
We hope we will rediscover the strength of will to save
successive generations from war , and to overcome
the hatred of our past and the narrow interests that
blind us to the vision of a common future that is
peaceful and prosperous.
We hope we will prove ourselves worthy as the
bearers of the legacy of Nelson Mandela.
I thank you.
We are so happy and take comfort in the fact that the
UN General Assembly is convening a peace summit,
and that such summit has been named after Nelson
Mandela.
Less than 30 years ago, beloved Madiba was a
political prisoner in the apartheid jails, serving a life
sentence as a result of his noble struggle for justice
and equality among all men and women in South
Africa, where a white minority was subjecting the
black majority to the scorn of segregation.
We do not forget that during the dark apartheid years
and even long after being elected President, Mandela
and the most brilliant and honest African freedom
fighters were still kept on lists of alleged terrorists.
Cuba is honoured to recall that we shared in their
struggles, on the first line of combat, together with
its African brothers and sisters from Angola and
Namibia.
And there was not greater acknowledgement than
the embrace of a freed Nelson Mandela to our
historic leader , Fidel Castro, on Cuban soil.
I intend that our tribute to Mandela is not only to South
Africa’s first black President and the Nobel Peace
Laureate, but we should also think about the rebel
who had to fight against injustice when peaceful ways
were shut down; the political prisoner , the advocate
for human rights and for the rights of his people, and
the politician who changed the history .
We are pleased that in remembering Mandela, the
struggle of the South African people against the
opprobrious apartheid regime is also recognised.
That struggle was waged under the leadership
of the African National Congress and many other
combatants who gave their lives for the cause of
freedom in Africa.
The First Secretary of our party , Army General
Raul Castro, called Mandela a “prophet of unity ,
reconciliation and peace”. On the other hand, the
Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Revolution,
Fidel Castro Ruz, defined him as an example of
“an absolutely honourable man (…), unyieldingly
courageous, heroic, calm, intelligent and capable
…” This is how the Cuban people also remember
Nelson Mandela.
Mrs President,

Recent announcements about military expenditure
are alarming, which is pushing the world into a
new arms race, to the detriment of the enormous
resources that are needed to build a world of peace.
There cannot be development without peace and
stability , nor can there be peace or stability without
development. There cannot be peace and security
for the people with high levels of poverty , chronic
hunger and malnutrition, lack of sanitation and limited
access to drinking water , illiteracy , high levels of
infant mortality , deaths due to preventable diseases
and a low life expectancy .
To achieve a world where peace and peaceful
solution of conflicts prevail, it is imperative to address
the root causes that create them. The millions of
excluded people as a result of the unfair economic
international order , the displaced persons, the
hungry , those fleeing wars and lack of opportunities
towards lands of abundance built on the plundering
of our peoples, have become victims of a noiseless
and silenced segregation.
A lot remains to be done in order to make Mandela’s
dreams come true. The only tribute worthy of his
memory is to promote development in underprivileged
nations. Actions rather than words. Cooperation, not
intervention. Solidarity , not plundering.
Mrs President,
Cuba and Africa are united by bonds of blood.
The cultural heritage of the African continent in the
idiosyncrasy of Cubans is undeniable. The culture
and the best values of the African peoples nurtured
our own. We were inspired by their courage, nobility ,
wisdom and resilience.
Cuba’s collaboration with the African peoples has
been maintained for over 50 years as a priority of the
foreign policy of the Cuban Revolution.

48 49
International peace remains threatened by the
philosophy of domination. Therefore, we endorse
Mandela’s words when he said: “We also want to be
masters of our own destiny”.
Let us then work for the future of peace that our
peoples are entitled to in their own right. Let us really
and fully honour unforgettable Mandela, whom the
historic leader of the Cuban Revolution called “an
apostle of peace”.
Thank you very much.
Speech by Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, Prime Minister of Ireland
 
Madame President of the General Assembly ,
Mr Secretary-General,
President Ramaphosa,
Excellency Madame Machel,
Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,

It is my great honour to join you today as we adopt
the Nelson Mandela Political Declaration. It reminds
us all that Mandela is a living legacy , entrusted to
us so we can be the torch-bearers for peace and
reconciliation, for this and future generations.

Side by side with our great friends from South Africa,
Ireland was privileged to co-facilitate the work that
has led to today’s Political Declaration.

With each of you today , I reaffirm that Ireland will
continue to uphold the ideals of the UN and work
with the international community to achieve the aims
that Mandela himself worked so tirelessly for during
his lifetime.

In Mandela’s story , we recognise the struggles and
triumphs of one individual, and the challenges and
hope for mankind.

His fight for freedom and dignity for all – irrespective
of race, gender , sexuality , colour or creed –
spoke to our vision of our common humanity and
proved that the seemingly impossible can indeed
become reality . It was reflected in South Africa’s
first democratic Constitution, written for a rainbow
nation. It is a template for new democracies today .
Dear friends, this year in Ireland, we mark 20 years of
the Good Friday Agreement, which after decades of
bitter violence, brought peace to Britain and Ireland,
closer cooperation between North and South and
power-sharing in Northern Ireland, at least, most of
the time.
The Northern Ireland Peace Process was advanced
with the wisdom and assistance of friends from around
the world, including you, President Ramaphosa. For
this, we will always be grateful.
We have witnessed firsthand the profound truths that
Nelson Mandela showed. Through his words and
though his actions:
• violent conflict is not inevitable
• peace is made, not with your friends, but with
your enemies
• reconciliation is achieved by moving beyond
the hurts and pain of the past towards truth and
forgiveness.

And, perhaps most profound of all, we can free the
prisoner , and we can free the jailer as well.
Twenty-eight years ago, just months after being
released from prison, an occasion etched in my
memory as a young boy , Nelson Mandela was
accorded the special honour of being invited to speak
before the Irish Parliament. There, he inspired us with
his words as he attacked “the arrogance of racism”
and honoured those who “dared to cry freedom”.

In our native Irish language, we say of truly remarkable
individuals:

“Ni bheidh a leithéid ann arís.”
“We will never see the likes of him again.”

And I can think of no better way to describe the
uniqueness of Mandela.

I believe the legacy of Nelson Mandela points to a
deeper truth.

A voice may be silenced by death, but its message
can never be suppressed. It is heard for all time. And
it finds a home in the hearts and the minds and the
values of those who follow afterwards.

Inspired by the message of Nelson Mandela again,
we should provide a voice for the oppressed around
the world. Finding shared solutions guided by shared
values like our belief in multilateralism, freedom of the
individual, human rights, democracy and protecting
our planet.
We should look to the words of this Declaration
as we face the challenges of the 21st century .
Recognising what has been done in the area of
gender discrimination, we must renew our efforts to
further advance gender equality around the world.
And we must give young people a greater say in the
decisions that will affect them – the future of our planet.
War and hatred come in many guises, peace has the
same face the world over . It is the image of those
who open their hearts and minds and make the
impossible possible, and build a future worth living for .
Thank you.
Speech by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand
Mr Secretary-General,
Madam President of the General Assembly ,
Distinguished Colleagues,
I am honoured to be here to mark the legacy of
Nelson Mandela in this 100th year since his birth.
Nelson Mandela was a global icon for the fight for
equality , freedom and human rights. He led the
struggle against apartheid and division. But not only
that, he personified the values of forgiveness and
reconciliation.
When I say his impact was global, I mean it. Nelson
Mandela had a profound impact on New Zealand.
His struggle against apartheid was supported in
New Zealand through a mass protest movement that
opposed sporting contact between our countries,
culminating in major protest events in 1981.
My father missed my first birthday because of it – he
was a policeman and was called upon to work during
the protests that surrounded the tour .
The 1981 Springbok Tour protests were a lesson in
solidarity , and its impact.
When Madiba visited New Zealand in 1995, as the
elected President of South Africa, he described the
news of the protest actions in New Zealand as being
like the sun coming out.
I remember that 1995 visit; his dignity and his
inspiration. Mandela was a living embodiment of the
UN’s values. It is these values and Mandela’s moral
example that we must look to promote in a world that
is more fragmented and fractured than ever before.
It’s an example that calls for justice, peace and
forgiveness.
For many New Zealanders, our most vivid memory of
Mandela was his appearance on the field following
South Africa’s 1995 Rugby World Cup victory over
New Zealand while donning a Springbok jersey and
presenting the trophy to the South African captain.
This was a seminal moment. If Mandela could make
peace, so could the rest of South Africa. That one act
of both triumph and reconciliation said so much about

50 51
who Nelson Mandela was: his capacity to forgive, his
commitment to reconciliation, and his ability to lead
and inspire against all odds.
It is these same values towards peace that we
committed to when we signed the UN Charter . We
collectively bound ourselves to the “pacific settlement
of disputes”, and to diplomacy .
This means that when we see a worsening security
situation, we act. For too long, the UN and the
international community have waited to react. Instead,
we must be proactive and place greater focus on
conflict prevention.
We must get better at identifying high-risk situations
and warning signs, before the conflict starts. We
must not be silent in the face of intolerance, hate and
discrimination. We must speak for those who do not
have a voice. We must pursue equal rights for all.
• exiting economic programmes of austerity , while
protecting the most vulnerable
• consolidating citizenship rights to the children
of migrants, reinforcing the rights of the Muslim
minority , protecting the rights of the LGBT
community
• managing unprecedented refugee flows, while
respecting human rights
Today , let us remember Mandela and the values he
devoted his life towards on his long walk to freedom.
But, let us not forget that there is still work to do.
We must ensure that the just, peaceful, prosperous,
democratic, fair and inclusive world which Mandela
strived for is fully realised. New Zealand’s commitment
to this work remains unwavering.
Above all else, Madiba taught us that no issue in the
world, whether it be racial inequity or indifference, is
insurmountable. That none of us are too small, or too
far away to be relevant in the collective struggle for
justice.
As we remember Madiba, my hope is that we all give
reason for the sun to come out.
Thank you.
Speech by the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras
I come from a country far away from Nelson
Mandela’s.
Nevertheless, a place that inspired the democratic
ideals that he fought for and was ready to risk his
life for .
But in the century that passed, it was Nelson Mandela
who inspired these democratic ideals and kept them
alive under the most difficult conditions.
Today , his vision and actions are more relevant
than ever , as our world is experiencing existential
challenges: an increase in wars and conflicts, a
widening in regional inequalities, a strengthening
of racism and the emergence of religious
fundamentalism.
The current state of affairs requires a Mandela-kind
of leadership: A relentless fighter for independence,
peace and human rights.
And – at the same time – a responsible leader and
formidable diplomat, who was ready to make the
compromises necessary to ensure these goals.
I think this was his power .
He was a fighter who had proved his commitment
to the rights of his people, as he rose from the
radical left, the anti-colonial struggle and 25 years of
imprisonment.
And yet, he became a statesman who transformed
his anger and conviction into an unmatchable energy
aimed at reconciliation, unity and peace.
“If we can learn how to hate, we can learn how to
love,” Mandela said.
At a time when the political momentum is moving us
rapidly backward, we must believe that we can turn
things around.
Social progress and peace are not given. They are
earned through struggle and compromise.
My country , Greece, during the difficult period of the
last few years, went through both. And now Greece
is:
• resolving international differences, such as
the name issue with our Northern neighbours,
FYROM.
I believe strongly that, either it is through overcoming
conflicts such as in Syria or the Palestinian issue, or
achieving the UN millennium goals, or supporting
African development, Nelson Mandela’s example
should inspire us today , on a national and international
level, to do much better .
Address by Maithripala Sirisena, President of Sri Lanka
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
On behalf of the people and the Government of Sri
Lanka, I wish to express my sincere appreciation to
the Secretary-General of the UN and the General
Assembly for organising the Nelson Mandela Peace
Summit.
We speak today of Nelson Mandela, a great
humanitarian, a leader who exemplified reconciliation
and a leader who guided humanity towards a nobler
path, at a time when the contemporary world lacks
such leaders.
Nelson Mandela demonstrated to the world how one
should act humanely when in power; when setting
limitations to that power; and relinquishing power .
Today’s world is not traversing the path that was taken
by the great Nelson Mandela. It is because of this
that the world needs to be reminded of the journey
of Nelson Mandela. The question arises regarding
to what extent the nationalities and leaders of today
who guide and chart the political paths of the world
embody the noble qualities and characteristics of
Nelson Mandela.
It is my belief that world leaders in particular , must
study and reflect on the life of Nelson Mandela, a
great leader who taught the world about peace,
reconciliation, harmony among communities and a
humane journey .
While the people and the Government of Sri Lanka
pay utmost respect to Nelson Mandela for the depths
of his humanity , his love for fellow human beings and
his lack of greed for political power , we invite all
world leaders to emulate this great man.
I thank you all.

52 53
Speech by Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama of Fiji
Madame President of the General Assembly , 
Ms María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés,
Mr António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Mr Moussa Faki, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Mr Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa,
Mr Leo Varadkar , Prime Minister of Ireland,
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,


In that way and so many others, the Nelson
Mandela Political Declaration and this summit
amplify our own national priorities and with how we
Fijians see ourselves in the world, as champions
of peace, able and willing to forge bonds across
the global stage, and as committed partners in
uplifting and protecting all people, irrespective
of who they are or where they may come from.
Before I begin, I would like to add my congratulations
to the distinguished representatives from South
Africa and Ireland; His Excellency , Jerry Matjila;
Her Excellency , Geraldine Byrne Nason; and
all of our distinguished delegates for their
commitment to this consultation process.

Madame President, my fellow delegates have given
full and inspiring accounts of the life of service
that His Excellency , Nelson Mandela, lived and the
legacy he bequeathed to humanity – a legacy of
tolerance, reconciliation, equality and kindness.

As a political activist, then through 27 years of
imprisonment, as a national leader and finally
as an international statesman, he held firm to
his principles and acted with supreme wisdom.

Through his life and legacy , Madiba is an inspiration
to all of us who strive to respect and protect the
human rights of all people. That legacy should
mean a great deal to every person on earth. But it
holds special meaning for the nation and people
that I lead, because like South Africa, Fiji and
the Fijian people suffered for decades under a
political culture of division, hatred and disunity .

It is only in recent years, that we’ve begun to
shed that legacy and unshackle ourselves
from our difficult history of ethnic division.

We’ve done that through a strict and unrelenting
adherence to the same principles that Madiba
so nobly sacrificed to defend in his life; a
commitment to equal opportunity , common
and equal citizenry , mutual understanding
and inclusive, wide-reaching prosperity . These
principles lie at the heart of Fiji’s Constitution.

So, it is with the greatest pride that I give my support
to this Political Declaration, a pride I know is shared
by the Fijian people – a people that stand together
and united, today like never before in our history .

Madame President, the journey of human progress
is unending. And yes, we still face a world afflicted
by conflict, racism and intolerance. But, even in
the bleakest of situations, Mandela showed us
that we can always forge common ground – and
we can always find understanding in the shared
experiences of our common humanity . At home,
abroad, in every encounter and exchange, we
must engage with an open mind, we must strive
for acceptance and understanding, and we must
remain committed to peace and democratic
ideals. That was Mandela’s vision, and that is
what is captured by the Mandela Declaration.

Madame President, sometimes we have to
make sacrifices to forge enduring and just
solutions to long-standing problems. Mandela
knew that. In fact, that is how he lived his life.

It is a truth we in Fiji recognise as well. That is why
thousands of brave Fijians have served on the
frontlines of conflict areas around the world as UN
peacekeepers over the past 40 years. We’re deeply
proud of that legacy . We’re proud to make such a
large commitment to global peace for a nation of
our size and population. And we are equally proud
to lead the world in confronting some of the great
challenges facing humanity , like that of climate
change and the degradation of our oceans and seas.

We’ve led those important campaigns, as
President of COP23 and co-chair of the UN Ocean
Conference, as part of our commitment to the
global human family , and we have built bridges to
nations, state and local governments, civil society ,
business leaders and ordinary citizens to overcome
what differences we may have in order to realise
common goals – a stated objective in the declaration.

Madame President, with those few words, I am
pleased to support this Political Declaration on
behalf of Fiji, and together with other leaders
here, give my full support to ensuring that we
build a better , more peaceful, a more equal
and more inclusive world – a world that lives up
to the example of the great Nelson Mandela.

Thank you.
Remarks by the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau
Nelson Mandela’s message of peace was rooted
in the conviction that we are part of the same
community .
That our fate is tied to that of our fellow citizens.
He famously held that “to be free is not merely to cast
off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and
enhances the freedom of others”.
Made an honourary Canadian in 2001, his example
touched the lives of millions, defying both time and
place.
Former prime ministers Mulroney and Clark were
among the many Canadians who firmly opposed
the apartheid regime, pressing world leaders and
international forums.
I remember the profound impact he had on my father ,
who greatly admired his character and his relentless
fight for justice. They actually spoke at length about
this when they met in the 1990s.
From the dock of the defendant to the confines of
Robben Island to the floor of the UN, Nelson Mandela
always appealed to our common humanity .
That must be the foundation of any lasting peace.
100 years after his birth, it is fitting that Madiba be
remembered here, by leaders of all nations.
Leaders who recognise that their challenges are
shared. Leaders who, despite their differences,
harbour the same hopes for their countries – the
same dreams of peace, prosperity and opportunity
for their people.
That is not to say that our solidarity is unquestioned
and unshaken.
Armed conflict, emerging threats, a changing climate
– all have tested the strength of our commitment and
the bounds of our compassion.
In times like these, we must remember the example
of Nelson Mandela, who believed that we should not
despair , for our troubles only bear witness to a job
unfinished.
As we pay tribute to the legacy of Nelson Mandela,
Canada reaffirms its resolve to push forward the work
he began.
Canada will continue to call out the unfair treatment
of racial and ethnic minorities, of women and girls, of
indigenous peoples.
We will continue to speak up for the refugees of
Rohingya, for the Yazidis of Northern Iraq, for the
people of Venezuela.
Canada will always stand tall for democracy , the rule
of law and human rights at home and abroad.
Peace is the work of many generations.
Madiba took up the cause of peace and it is now up
to us to keep carrying the torch forward.
The flames of his ideals must live on in each and
every one of us.

54 55
Speech by Professor Arthur Peter Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi Madame President,
A common thread unifies all our people – a longing
for peace, prosperity and an equitable future.
We must work hard to ensure that this becomes
a reality . Nelson Mandela said: “To be free is not
merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a
way that respects and enhances the freedom
One hundred years after his birth, it is historic to
commemorate the legacy of Nelson Mandela and his
role in global peace.
The global peace agenda is at the very heart of
Malawi. Malawi is a peace-loving country .
We are therefore committed to ensuring that there is
total peace and tranquility in the world.
Every human being deserves to live in a peaceful
environment and with peace of mind.
We therefore support the African Union Master
Roadmap of Practical Steps to Silence the Guns by
2020.
Malawi will always go out to defend peace wherever
peace is under threat. We will continue participating
in peacekeeping missions wherever duty calls us.
Malawi has moved to develop counter-terrorism
legislation on the Chemical Weapons Convention
and Biological Weapons Convention.
However , the UN will make more progress protecting
and maintaining peace by involving Africa in its
decision-making processes.
We therefore call upon the UN to expedite the debate
on the Security Council reform.
We call upon the UN to adopt the African Common
Position from the Ezulwini Consensus.
We call upon the UN to accommodate African
representation through two permanent seats in the
UN Security Council.
As we celebrate the life of Nelson Mandela, a man
with whom we share the same birthday , I urge us all to
reflect on the role Mandela played in peacebuilding.
Let us also reflect on the role Africa can play in this
cause. The world needs Africa more than ever . Let us
rise up and take our place in the global community .
I thank you for your attention.
Statement by President Danny Faure of the Seychelles
Your Excellency , President of the 73rd Session of the General Assembly , Ms Maria Fernanda Espinosa, 
Your Excellency , Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr Moussa Faki,
Distinguished Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
This year , a true son of Africa and a giant of history ,
would have celebrated his 100th birthday . Today , we
have come together to commemorate the memory
of a man who stood for social justice and universal
peace, while also acknowledging his enduring legacy .

When Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela was growing up in
a small village named Qunu 100 years ago, there was
no reason to think he would change the course of
history . But, through his sacrifice, leadership, and most
importantly , his belief in the human spirit and its infinite
capacity for good, he set an example to the world. 

It is not enough that we preach the great ideals for
which he stood and practise the opposite. We have
an unprecedented opportunity as leaders to ensure
that we govern with the philosophies of peace and
equitable progress he championed. Today , I renew
my commitment to living by the ideals of the late
Nelson Mandela and ensuring that his message of
equality , democracy , dignity and goodness lives on
through the people I have been entrusted to serve.  

I also believe that to fully achieve Madiba’s vision
for the world, the state of our planet, our only
home, must be protected at all costs. If we fail to
take responsibility for our actions and the impact
that we are having on our environment, we run the
grave risk of condemning our children to a fate,
which he struggled during his lifetime to abolish.     

of others”. We must live and lead by this truism.
Only then, would we have fulfilled his legacy .

As I conclude, I wish to join Seychelles to the
values and principles of the Nelson Mandela
Political Declaration that we adopt today . 

I thank you.
Speech by President Paul Kagame of Rwanda
Nelson Mandela’s centenary presents an ideal
moment to reflect on the meaning that the legacy
of this great African freedom fighter and statesman
holds for us today .
Nelson Mandela understood that the politics of
confrontation and division impedes a nation’s social
cohesion and progress. Even though the wounds
were still fresh, he endeavoured to show that the
suffering endured by him and countless other South
Africans could be re-directed toward building a more
positive future for the country .
This was not an easy message, but President Mandela
was a true leader and an inspiring communicator . He
did what was right, even when it was not popular .
In Rwanda, our tragic history has taught us the
importance of unity and inclusivity for reconciliation
and nation-building. We work to ensure that all
citizens have equal rights and opportunities and are
able to participate actively in shaping our country’s
direction in meaningful ways. This approach has
allowed us to restore trust in public institutions, and
also in each other .
Inclusive and non-sectarian politics is not only
advantageous in Africa or in post-conflict situations.
As the world has been seeing, national unity is a
good thing, wherever it takes hold.
We are fortunate to have Nelson Mandela’s example
to keep bringing us back to this fundamental truth.
I wish to thank you all for your kind attention.
Statement by Prime Minister Andrew Holness of Jamaica
Madam President,
Mr Secretary-General,
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
 
I commend the UN, the greatest global peace
alliance, for convening this Nelson Mandela Peace
Summit in commemoration of the centenary of his
birth.
Jamaica is proud of the strong leadership role we
played in driving efforts to dismantle the apartheid
system in South Africa. Under that system, Nelson
Mandela was unjustly incarcerated for 27 years and
millions of Africans oppressed.
We were the first country in the Western hemisphere
and second in the world, along with India, to ban
trade and travel with the racist regime.
Indeed, Jamaica’s support for the fight against racial
injustice in South Africa preceded the official start of
the apartheid system.
Over many years, with support from countries
all across the globe, many Jamaicans, including

56 57
academics, politicians, clergy , iconic artists, such
as our own reggae legend and freedom fighter , Bob
Marley , and people from all walks of life, were joined
together in a clarion call to free Mandela.
It is in this context, that I am deeply honoured to
participate in this summit, which comes at a time
of heightened global concern about hostility and
conflict within some of our societies; with some
regimes focussed on the use of might rather than the
protection of right.
The centenary of Nelson Mandela’s birth provides
space for us as world leaders to affirm the need for
healthy and meaningful dialogue to engender peace,
reconciliation and communal accord. These I believe
are principles that Mandela would very much wish us
to promote on this occasion.
which Nelson Mandela stood for by placing human
dignity at the centre of our actions. This centenary
celebration provides an avenue to reflect on the
legacies of Nelson Mandela and his unwavering
advocacy for human rights, social justice and peace.
It also affords us the rare privilege to rededicate
ourselves to the service of humanity by championing
democracy , conflict resolution, disarmament, mutual
respect, reconciliation, gender equality and the fight
against poverty . There is no doubt that in the quest
to attain peace and development, the world will draw
inspiration from the life of Nelson Mandela.
Madam President,
As we herald the Nelson Mandela decade of peace,
Nigeria calls on all states to recognise that the UN is
built on the pillars of peace and security , development
and human rights, which are the foundations for our
collective well-being, and emphasise that there can
be no peace without sustainable development and no
sustainable development without peace and the full
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
for all.
By this declaration, we recognise the contribution
of women to the advancement of societies, and
their contribution to the prevention and resolution
Admittedly , these goals are not easily achieved without
significant sacrifice from leaders. No one understood
this more than Nelson Mandela.  He asserted that:
“Real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the
freedom of their people”. That was his mantra, and
sacrifice he did.
Nelson Mandela understood, however , throughout
his long walk to freedom, that full freedom could only
be achieved if he left bitterness behind. In his own
words: “What counts is not the mere fact that we
lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives
of others that will determine the significance of the
life we lead”.
Like Mandela, we too must commit to the consolidation
of peaceful coalitions. What better occasion than this
summit, to do just that.
Let that be our legacy in his honour!
Speech by President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria

Madam President,
Secretary-General,
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,

It is indeed a great honour to participate in this
historic event that reflects on global peace and
commemorates the centenary of the birth of
Nelson Mandela – a man whose lifetime symbolised
uncommon humility , compassion, courage and
forgiveness.
Our sincere appreciation goes to President Cyril
Ramaphosa of South Africa and Prime Minister Leo
Varadkaar of Ireland, and their teams for nurturing
and finalising the Political Declaration that would be
adopted here today . This declaration will undoubtedly
set forth commitments that would honour the legacy
of Nelson Mandela.
Madam President,
We are witnessing a time when the world is facing
diverse challenges, ranging from conflicts, climate
change, terrorism, desertification, poverty , arms
trafficking and violent extremism, among others. Yet,
it is a time of great hope and renaissance. On facing
the death penalty , Nelson Mandela spoke from the
dock at the end of the Rivonia Trial in April 1964. He
said:
“During my lifetime, I have dedicated myself to
this struggle of the African people. I have fought
against white domination, and I have fought against
black domination. I have cherished the ideal of a
democratic and free society in which all persons live
together in harmony with equal opportunities. It is an
ideal which I hope to live for and to see realised. But
if needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to
die.”
It is within this ethos of the great Mandela that we
place this declaration. We must therefore make
concerted efforts to build a just, peaceful, prosperous,
inclusive and fair world, and revive the values for
of conflicts. We are committed to the promotion
and protection of the rights of all women as well as
providing an enabling environment for them to realise
their full potential.
We also recognise that the inherent dignity and the
equal and inalienable rights of all peoples of the
world are the foundation of freedom, justice and
peace in the world. We declare that racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
represent the very opposite of the noble purposes
of the UN.
Madam President,
We recognise that tolerance of cultural, ethnic, racial
and religious diversities is essential for lasting peace,
understanding and friendship among peoples,
nations, cultures and individuals. As Mandela passes
into history , we stand with him in his aspirations for a
better world. It is our duty to live up to his indelible
legacy by collectively holding ourselves accountable
to the values and principles of this declaration by
striving for a just, peaceful, prosperous, democratic,
fair and inclusive world.
I thank you for your attention.

58 59
I have the honour to address this august body , the
UN General Assembly , for the first time as President
of the Republic of South Africa.
It is nearly a quarter of a century since the founding
father of our democracy , President Nelson Rolihlahla
Mandela, stood at this podium to declare that: “The
millions across our globe who stand expectant at the
gates of hope look to this organisation [the United
Nations], to bring them peace, to bring them life, to
bring them a life worth living”.
As we mark the centenary of the birth of this great
global leader , we are bound to ask whether the
UN has met the needs and the expectations of the
millions who stand at the gates of hope.
We are bound to ask what contribution the UN has
made to a more peaceful, more prosperous and
more equal world.
More importantly , we are called upon to ask – as
we did yesterday during the Nelson Mandela
Peace Summit – what the UN and the assembled
global leadership must do to secure lasting peace,
reconciliation and stability across the globe.
Allow me to express the deep gratitude of the
Government and the people of South Africa
to the international community for convening
the Peace Summit to honour the memory of
Nelson Mandela and advance his legacy .

our youth and transforming an economy that was
constituted to serve the interests of a few.
We have started a comprehensive dialogue on the
question of land reform, which is guided by our
Constitution and the rule of law as we seek ways to
ensure that the land is shared among all who work it,
as set out in our Freedom Charter .
Even as our country is going through difficult
economic challenges, we have made progress.
We are reforming our economy and creating an
environment that is conducive to investment, and
have embarked on an investment drive to attract
US$100 billion in the next five years.
To the poor , vulnerable and marginalised, the UN
today is a beacon of promise in a landscape of
doubt.
To billions across the world, the UN is the most
powerful instrument we possess to achieve a more
equal, more humane and more inclusive world.
They are men and women with dreams and aspirations
that transcend the hardships of the present, who
want to contribute to a new global civilization defined
by care, justice and solidarity . They want an end to
the greed, ignorance and conceit that are driving the
destruction of our only home, the earth. It is within
our hands, as the leaders assembled here today , to
forge a more representative, equal and fair UN that
is empowered and equipped to lead the struggle
to end poverty , unemployment and inequality in the
world.
We are a young world, where more than half the
global population is under the age of 30 years.
This is even more pronounced on our continent,
Africa, where two-thirds of its people were not yet
born when Nelson Mandela was released from
prison.
We are living in the Age of Youth.
We applaud the Political Declaration of the Summit,
which recognises the period from 2019 to 2028 as
the Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace.
This reflects a new and sincere commitment by the
world’s leaders to comprehensively advance peace
and security and resolve all conflicts and wars. To
succeed in giving effect to this commitment, the
UN must become what billions of people across
the world want it to be – a representative and truly
democratic global parliament of the people.
Throughout its seven decades, the UN has been a
source of hope for the oppressed, exploited and
poor .
During the dark days of colonialism and apartheid,
we drew strength, inspiration and encouragement
from the UN and its Charter in our quest for self-
determination. With the support of the UN, we were
able 24 years ago to bring an end to the nightmare
of apartheid.
Nelson Mandela led us to freedom and gave us the
great opportunity to transform our country .
We have embarked on a journey of transformation,
and work is in progress to deal with the ugly legacy
of apartheid.
Madiba’s vision continues to guide us as we seek
to improve the lives of our people in many respects,
through improving the educational outcomes of
This places a responsibility on us, as leaders, not only
to put the interests of young people at the centre of
our efforts, but also to empower women and young
people to be more prominent in directing the course
of global affairs.
It is young people who are fighting the wars that we
started.
It is women who are bearing the brunt and hardships
of the wars that continue to destroy their families and
lives.
As we speak, young lives are being lost and futures
are being destroyed.
There is an urgency to the measures we must take to
end conflict and war .
Not only must we stop the death, destruction and
human suffering that are visited daily on millions of
people, but we must act with purpose to prevent the
loss of another entire generation to its aftermath.
We must accept our shared responsibility – and our
shared interest – in ending conflict, and, using the
outcomes of the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, to
empower the UN to be a more effective instrument
for mediation, peacekeeping and post-conflict
reconstruction.
Our resolve to end ongoing conflicts and our
determination to root out terrorism must be matched
by action and by the appropriate deployment of
resources. We must act with the same urgency to
resolve some of the world’s most protracted and
intractable disputes.
The fact that the people of Palestine have endured
occupation and suffering for nearly as long as the
UN has existed, makes their plight no less pressing,
nor their suffering any less acceptable.
We must similarly intensify our efforts to secure
the right of the people of Western Sahara to self-
determination and full national sovereignty .
UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa to the UN General Assembly, UN, New York,
United States of America, 25 September 2018
Madame President of the 73rd Session of UN General Assembly , Ms María Fernanda Espinosa,
Secretary-General, Mr António Guterres,
Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Majesties,
Heads of Delegation,
Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentleman,

60 61
One of the greatest challenges to the achievement of
global prosperity and development is the continued
exclusion of millions of women and young people
from meaningful economic participation.
It is therefore vital that we deploy every means at
our disposal to address youth unemployment and
ensure universal access to educational opportunities
that are appropriate to the changing world of work.
We need a deliberate programme to ensure that the
digital revolution – which carries such great potential
for both disruption and empowerment – is effectively
harnessed to promote social justice and human
progress.
The call to leave no one behind requires that we
strengthen the institutions of global governance and
make them more responsive to the needs of young
people, particularly in the developing world.
Institutions like the UN, World Bank, International
Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organisation
need to be reshaped and enhanced so that they
may more effectively meet the challenges of the
contemporary world and better serve the interests of
the poor and marginalised.
Reform of the UN, and particularly its Security
Council, is a priority if we are to give full effect to the
values and principles enshrined in the UN Charter .
We must resist any and all efforts to undermine
the multilateral approach to international trade,
which is essential to the promotion of stability and
predictability in the global economy .
The history of the global economy informs us that no
country can prosper at the expense of all others, and
that no people can hope to live in comfort and security
for as long as millions of others languish in poverty .
It is therefore essential that we take collective
responsibility for the development of all nations and
for the improvement of the lives of all people.
This responsibility is manifest in the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development, the Paris Agreement
on Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action
Agenda on the financing of development, among
others.
Together , they represent our common commitment to
tackle poverty , underdevelopment and environmental
degradation.
They represent our common commitment to tackle
diseases like AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, diabetes
and cancer .
Our task as global leaders is to pursue the policies
that are required to turn intent into implementation
and mobilise the resources needed to turn
implementation into impact.
Your Excellencies,
As Africans, we have made significant strides in
addressing the challenges that have confronted
our continent over many decades. We continue to
vigorously implement our commitments contained in
the African Union Agenda 2063, which is our collective
plan to rid our continent of underdevelopment,
poverty and conflict and improve democratic
governance, the rule of law and the promotion of
human rights.
We have reached agreement on the establishment
of an African Continental Free Trade Area, which will
fundamentally transform African economies, giving
rise to a new industrial age on the continent.
We are working to silence the guns in Africa by 2020,
to bring an end to conflicts that have cost the lives
of millions of our people, displaced many more and
stunted economic growth and human development.
As the continent with the youngest population in the
world, Africa has the potential to be the next great
frontier for global growth.
With effective investment in education, improved
healthcare, good governance and greater economic
integration, Africa has the potential to develop its
productive capacity on a scale and at a rate that will
lift tens of millions out of poverty .
The youth of Africa are poised to transform their
continent.
As the people of South Africa, we are committed to
be part of this transformation.
From the ashes of a system that was described by the
UN General Assembly as a crime against humanity ,
we are building a new democratic nation, united in its
diversity . We are working to correct the injustices of
our past and to build a society that is free, inclusive
and sustainable.
We are pursuing an economic path that draws on
the resources and capabilities of all our people to
eradicate poverty , unemployment and inequality .
We are determined through our international relations
to be a force for progress and peace and global
equality , and will continue to advance the interests of
the African continent and the Global South.
Allow me to conclude by once more drawing on
the wisdom of Nelson Mandela, when he said:
“Sometimes it falls on a generation to be great”.
This is not the generation that will stand expectant
at the gates of hope. This is the generation that will
change the world. This is their time, and this is their
age.
Let their greatness blossom.
I thank you.

62 63
CHAPTER 4
SOUTH AFRICA AS CO-CHAIR OF THE FORUM ON
CHINA-AFRICA COOPERATION (FOCAC)

64 65
CHAPTER 4
SOUTH AFRICA AS CO-CHAIR OF THE FORUM ON CHINA-AFRICA COOPERATION (FOCAC)
Welcoming address by Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, at the
Opening Session of the Seventh Ministerial Meeting of FOCAC, Beijing, China, 2 September, 2018
Honourable State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, Mr Wang Yi,
and Honourable Minister of Commerce, Mr Gao Hucheng,
Honourable Minister of Trade and Industry of the Republic of South Africa, Mr Rob Davies,
Honourable Ministers of Foreign Affairs, International Relations and Cooperation, Economic Affairs and
Commerce representing Africa,
Honourable Heads of Delegation,
Honourable Representatives of Observer Nations and Organisations,
Distinguished Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
 
also serves to support our continental and
regional initiatives, programmes and projects.
 
In this regard, we continue to look at the People’s
Republic of China as a trusted development
partner with a long-term strategic commitment
to the African continent, which equally supports
Africa’s needs, while looking to its own.
 
Your Excellencies,
We are all well aware that Africa is endowed with
vast resources of mineral, natural and human
wealth. However , the challenge is to utilise these
assets more effectively to transform the lives of
all our people by not merely extracting, but by
also processing and beneficiating at the source;
by modernising how we utilise our land; and by
ensuring that we provide our people with the skills
and opportunities that will ultimately lead to quality
job creation, particularly for the youth and women.
 
I wish to thank Minister Wang Yi and the
people of the People’s Republic of China
for their warm welcome and the facilities
provided, indeed excellent by any standard.
 
We gather today to reflect on how the FOCAC Forum
has performed since the adoption of the Johannesburg
Declaration and the Johannesburg Plan of Action
(2016 – 2018) at the last summit in South Africa in
2015.  We find that the record of implementation
is most satisfactory , with approximately 90%
of the US$60 billion pledged now allocated to
projects. We also find that many of the commitments
undertaken under the 10 new cooperation measures
announced by President Xi have been implemented
or are in the process of being completed.
 
We also gather here today to see how the FOCAC
Forum can be further strengthened to continue
to advance common growth and development
even more effectively – growth and development
that is mutually beneficial to the peoples of the
People’s Republic of China and the African
continent – and achieve the win-win outcome
envisaged by my counterpart, Minister Wang Yi.
 
We hope that, through our engagements today ,
we can continue to forge closer cooperation,
and exchange experiences and best practices
to assist our respective regions to progress.
 
In the People’s Republic of China, we are
partnering with a country of huge manufacturing
capacity , strong technological advancement
and capacity in industrialisation.  Our relations
with China have already made great strides in
addressing Africa’s developmental challenges,
ranging from education and training, to healthcare,
infrastructure development, tourism and skills
exchanges. We need to further strengthen
these important facets of human development.
 
In the coming years, both China and Africa aspire to
reach new milestones. The quest for industrialisation,
skills development, foreign direct investment in
manufacturing, beneficiation, agro-processing
and skills transfer programmes will provide
ample opportunity for advancing the interests of
our two regions in a mutually beneficial manner .
 
For our part, Africa has taken decisive and
tangible steps to determine its own destiny and
we have adopted Agenda 2063, which is our
vision to place the continent on a developmental
path that will address Africa’s key challenges
of poverty , inequality and underdevelopment.
 
In this regard, Agenda 2063’s flagship programmes
are designed to achieve the following key deliverables,
among others:
• improving railway connectivity
• improving road infrastructure, sea ports and air
transportation
• investing in a well-developed ICT and digital
economy
• developing agriculture and agro-processing.
We need to ensure that, going forward, FOCAC
continues to be an effective cooperative
partnership that serves the core interests of all
its members. We need to ensure that FOCAC
We are living in an era of global competitiveness
and cutting-edge technological advancement. It
is the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  The
People’s Republic of China has proven to possess
the competitive edge, technological innovation
and workmanship capable of partnering with
Africa to advance the cause of peace, prosperity
and mutual benefits.  The FOCAC partnership
appreciates the complementarities that can be
harnessed between Africa and China in this regard.
 
In conclusion, it is within us collectively to elevate
the FOCAC partnership to a high-performing,
results-based mechanism. In the coming few days,
through positive and constructive engagements,
we will provide the future we seek together .  I
have the utmost faith that we will not disappoint
our peoples in this process.  Future generations
need to agree that it was here that we ensured
the sustainable prosperity of China and Africa.
 
I thank you.
Remarks by President Cyril Ramaphosa during the FOCAC, Beijing, China, 3 September 2018
Your Excellency Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic of China,
Your Excellency Paul Kagame, Chairperson of the African Union and President of Rwanda,
Your Excellency Moussa Mahamat Faki, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Your Excellency António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Honourable Heads of State and Government,
Honourable Ministers,
Distinguished Delegates,
Your Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
At the outset, allow me to express our profound
gratitude for the generous hospitality accorded to all
of us since our arrival in the ancient city of Beijing.
Africa and China enjoy a rich history characterised
by friendship and solidarity . We recall the historical
visit of Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai to Africa in
the 1960s, where he articulated the key principles
underpinning our comprehensive strategic and
cooperative partnership. He spoke of a relationship
founded on equality , trust, mutual respect and mutual
benefit.
Now, more than 50 years later , these principles remain
at the centre of cooperation between the continent
of Africa and China. These are the principles that
underpin FOCAC; they inform our decisions and
guide our actions.
Since its launch in 2000, FOCAC has grown both in
extent and scope. It serves as an effective platform
for South-South cooperation focussed on the tangible
improvement of the quality of lives of all the people
of Africa. In the values that it promotes, in the manner
that it operates and in the impact that it has on
African countries, FOCAC refutes the view that a new
colonialism is taking hold in Africa, as our detractors
would have us believe.
The progress that has been made over the last 18
years demonstrates the tangible and lasting benefit
of FOCAC to the people of Africa and to the people

66 67
of China. The relationship that we have forged
through FOCAC is premised on the fundamental and
inalienable right of the African people to determine
their own future.
It is premised on the African Union’s Agenda 2063, a
vision that has been crafted in Africa, by Africans. It
is a vision of an integrated, prosperous and peaceful
Africa, driven by its own citizens and representing a
dynamic force in the international arena. It is a vision
of a continent where commerce, trade, investment,
skills and knowledge move freely across the borders
that were imposed on us by our colonial rulers.
We are working to build an Africa that is defined by
good governance, democracy , respect for human
rights, justice and the rule of law. It is an Africa
where the guns have been silenced, and where all its
people live in peace and security . It is an Africa with
a strong cultural identity , common heritage, shared
values and ethics.
Importantly , it is an Africa whose development is
people-driven, relying on the capability and potential
of its people. We look to China as a valuable and
committed partner in advancing Agenda 2063.
It is in pursuit of this vision that we embrace China’s
“Belt and Road” initiative. We are confident that this
initiative, which effectively complements the work
of FOCAC, will reduce the costs and increase the
volume of trade between Africa and China.
It will encourage the development of Africa’s
infrastructure, a critical requirement for meaningful
regional and continental integration.
Yesterday , our ministers of foreign affairs and
trade deliberated on the implementation of
the Johannesburg Action Plan. We are greatly
encouraged by their assessment that the 10
cooperation plans announced in 2015 have been
fully implemented, for it shows a partnership that
is hard at work to advance the mutual interests of
Africa and China.
The China-Africa industrialisation plan has driven
industrial development in many parts of the continent
and contributed to economic transformation. The
agricultural modernisation plan has promoted greater
agricultural productivity and the infrastructure plan
has boosted African connectivity and integration.
This obviously limits the ability of African countries
to extract the full value for their abundant natural
resources and to create work for their people. It is
through platforms like FOCAC that we should work
to balance the structure of trade between Africa and
China.
We welcome the fact that, in addition to trade, China
has become a major investor in the continent.
As we look to expand Chinese investment in Africa,
we need to encourage more local partnerships
between Chinese and African entrepreneurs.
Through the transfer of knowledge and technology ,
such partnerships can contribute to the development
and sustainability of African businesses. They will be
contributing to the expansion of Africa’s productive
capacity and the creation of new industries.
It is important also that we promote investment-led
trade between Africa and China, which addresses
the nature and quality of investment in Africa. We
should seek inward investment that enables industrial
development and the export of more value-added
products.
Developments on the African continent are further
expanding the potential benefits of cooperation.
We urge Chinese investors to take advantage of the
great opportunities that will be created through the
establishment of the African Continental Free Trade
Area. It will establish a single market of more than a
billion people with considerable economic potential.
It will promote the industrialisation of African
economies and position the continent as a global
competitor . Chinese companies that invest in Africa’s
productive capacity will be able to reap the benefits
of a massive continental market.
The economic value of FOCAC – to both Africa and
China – is particularly important in the context of an
increasingly uncertain global environment. Global
economic volatility and heightened concerns about
peace and stability render developing countries
particularly vulnerable.
These plans have also contributed to environmental
conservation, sustainable development, improved
public health services, and peace and security .
Through FOCAC and other forums, China has
worked to ensure that Africa’s development is
prominent on the international agenda. Building on
these remarkable achievements, we welcome the
announcement today by President Xi of new FOCAC
initiatives that will have a significant and lasting impact
on peace, stability and sustainable development on
the African continent.
We appreciate the decision to provide new funding
to African countries to the value of US$60 billion
and to invest in initiatives in areas such as industrial
development, infrastructure, human resource
development, healthcare, the green economy , and
peace and security , among others.
Your Excellencies,
Through this partnership, we are working together
to advance growth and development on the
African continent. We have observed with interest
and admiration China’s remarkable economic
ascendance, making it the world’s second-largest
economy and third-largest foreign investor .
We applaud its achievements in social development,
lifting millions of people out of poverty and meeting
almost all of the Millennium Development Goals.
There are many valuable lessons that Africa can
learn from China’s impressive growth model and its
approach to meeting the needs of its people.
Significantly , China has used its substantial capacity
and resources as a catalyst for development in other
markets.
As a result, FOCAC has become an essential
platform to contribute to Africa’s social and economic
advancement. There has been rapid growth in Sino-
African trade, with China now being Africa’s largest
trade partner .
Much of what is exported from Africa are raw
materials and primary products; much of what is
imported from China are finished goods. We export
to China what we extract from the earth; China
exports to us what it makes in its factories.
There is a renewed threat to the rules-based
multilateral global trading system, which although
imperfect, does provide stability , predictability
and a greater degree of fairness. We should
be using platforms such as FOCAC to reaffirm
our shared commitment to multilateralism, a
fair and transparent system of international
trade and a global economic architecture that
promotes the interests of the developing world.
Africa is the next frontier growth market in the world.
In the coming decades, it will create many
opportunities not only for its people, but also
for economic partners such as China. China’s
investment in Africa, its strengthening trade ties and
its consistent support for Africa’s development will
benefit the people of Africa and the people of China
well into the future.
As we strengthen political and economic ties, we
need to place greater emphasis on people-to-people
cooperation. We need, through such cooperation, to
nurture and empower the youth of China and Africa.
This is a forward-looking partnership, concerned
not only with the challenges of the present, but
preparing for the opportunities of the future. We
should be using FOCAC as an instrument for youth
development, to invest in building their capabilities
and exposing them to the great possibilities that the
world has to offer . Our objectives extend beyond the
peoples of Africa and China.
Together , we are working to build a community of
shared future for all humankind.
This requires leadership, vision and partnership.
It requires dedication to building the capabilities of
our peoples and a resolute commitment to the cause
of development and progress.
With the foundation we have built through FOCAC,
with the relationships we have established between
our governments, leaders and people, I am certain
that we will succeed.
I thank you

69
CHAPTER 5
HEADS OF MISSION CONFERENCE
H   M
OR TAMBO

       IN SERVICE OF OUR COUNTRY

70 71
CHAPTER 5
HEADS OF MISSION CONFERENCE
Address by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the South African Heads of Mission Conference,
OR Tambo Building, Pretoria, 23 October 2018
Programme Director ,
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Ms Lindiwe Sisulu,
Deputy Ministers, Mr Luwellyn Landers and Ms Reginah Mhaule,
Members of the Portfolio and Select Committees,
Director-General,
Members of the Ministerial Review Panel,
Your Excellencies,
Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As we reflect on their respective legacies, we are
ever mindful of the sacrifices they and many others
made for our liberation.
We carry a weighty responsibility to ensure that their
sacrifices were not in vain and to realise their vision
of a South Africa free from discrimination, inequality
and want.
Although we have registered notable progress in
the 24 years since democracy , we still grapple with
the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and
inequality .
To address these challenges, government is on an
ambitious drive to grow our economy , anchored in
cooperation between government, business, labour
and civil society .
We want to get our economy going following a period
of stagnant growth.
We want to regain public and investor trust, and thereby
unlock private capital and promote investment.
Above all, we want to see our people secure dignified,
meaningful employment to ensure that all South
Africans benefit from economic growth.
In just two days from now, we will open the South
Africa Investment Conference in Johannesburg; a
critical intervention to showcase opportunities for both
domestic and foreign investors.
The conference is an integral part of government’s
ambitious drive to raise US$100 billion in new
investment over five years, stimulate economic growth
and create jobs.
The conference will discuss opportunities in
sectors like agriculture, minerals, manufacturing,
transportation, energy , water , ICT , tourism and film.
This Heads of Mission Conference therefore takes
place at an important moment, for it is you, our
diplomats, who must play a pivotal role in driving the
message that South Africa is open for business.
It is a great pleasure to join you at this biennial
gathering that brings together our country’s global
envoys to assess our progress in advancing our
country’s interests on the continent and around the
world.
We strive to advance our national interest in a global
landscape that is in a constant state of flux, where
political, social and economic forces beyond our
control have a direct bearing on our efforts.
Like any other country , South Africa is not immune
to tremors in the global economy or to shifts in geo-
politics.
In the midst of global uncertainty , we are fortunate
to have at the helm of our diplomatic service an
experienced and capable corps of people who can
be relied upon to steadfastly promote our progressive
international agenda.
In all our efforts, we are guided by the National
Development Plan 2030, which provides a roadmap
for unleashing the energies of our citizens, growing
an inclusive economy , building capabilities and
enhancing the ability of the State.
At the same time, we wholly identify with the
aspirations of Agenda 2063 of the African Union and
its vision of “an integrated, prosperous and peaceful
Africa, driven by its own citizens and representing a
dynamic force in the international arena”.
South Africa and its fortunes are inextricably linked to
those of the continent.
In accepting the Nobel Peace Prize in 1961, Inkosi
Albert Luthuli said:
“I accept this also as an honour not only to South
Africa, but for the whole continent of Africa, to this
continent, Mother Africa!”
It was the people of Africa who extended the hand of
friendship and solidarity to us during the dark days
of apartheid, and today it is African countries who
are our valued allies and trade partners.
When Africa falters, South Africa falters. And when
Africa prospers, South Africa prospers.
We are guided by the words of Kwame Nkrumah,
who said:
“Divided we are weak, united, Africa could become
one of the greatest forces for good in the world.”
This year marks the centenaries of two titans of the
liberation struggle, Tata Nelson Mandela and Mama
Albertina Sisulu.
It is our missions abroad that are leading our
Economic Diplomacy , that need to ensure that the
outcomes of the conference are conveyed around
the world, and that are responsible for assisting the
expansion of trade and investment links with partner
countries.
The Investment Conference follows the successful
Jobs Summit held earlier this month, where more
than 70 interventions were identified to protect
existing jobs and create new ones.
The framework agreement adopted by social partners
at the summit focusses on empowering women and
the youth, stimulating demand in the local economy
and expanding our export capacity .
The summit agreed that the “Buy South Africa”’
should be significantly upscaled and that we should
take advantage of new opportunities in Africa
through regional and continental integration.
As part of our investment-friendly approach, we
are focussing on addressing structural weaknesses
in the economy , rebuilding investor confidence,
restoring good governance in public institutions and
creating a supportive environment for those who
want to invest and those who have invested already .
South Africa’s advanced infrastructure has long
been one of the country’s strongest attractions for
investors.
As part of the work that we must undertake now
to stimulate growth and create employment, we
are consolidating our R400-billion Medium Term
Expenditure Framework infrastructure budget into an
Infrastructure Fund.
This will be used to address infrastructure gaps in
areas such as roads, water infrastructure, schools,
human settlements and public transport.
Additional resources from development finance
institutions, multilateral development banks and
private lenders and investors will also be leveraged
through this fund.

72 73
Over the past few months, we have already achieved
a number of milestones in our quest for improved
investment, resulting in renewed levels of business
confidence.
For example, we have initiated changes to our visa
regime to attract more skilled workers and tourists.
Processes to restore confidence in our institutions
and organisations of governance are underway .
We are investigating and prosecuting cases of
corruption.
The governance and management of key state-
owned enterprises are being overhauled to ensure
they are held accountable to fulfil their economic and
developmental mandates.
Our ability to generate foreign investment in our
country depends in large measure on the image
of our country abroad, which is one of the core
responsibilities of our diplomats.
We must acknowledge that there are some negative
perceptions about South Africa, its government and
its economy that we need to work to correct.
It is important that we should not overlook the
challenges we have, nor deny that we are emerging
from a period of difficulty .
But it is clear that our democracy is resilient, that we
are making progress in addressing the immediate
challenges we face, and that we are establishing
a foundation for lasting growth and fundamental
transformation.
We should locate the South African narrative within
the context of a continent that is on the rise.
It is estimated that over the next 20 years, the working
population of Africa will increase to more than a billion.
harmony , maintain international peace and security
and respect the human rights of all.
Good governance, democracy , respect for human
rights, justice and the rule of law are also among the
aspirations of Agenda 2063.
If we are to safeguard our security and prosperity , if
we are to silence the guns in Africa, we have to work
to consolidate rather than erode the international rule
of law.
It is international law that informs the exercise and
limits of the use of state power , and that enforces
cooperation over conflict, and collaboration over
confrontation.
The challenge before us is to transform global
politics from a power-based hierarchy to a rules-
based international system where each country can
advance and protect its national interest without
provoking animosity .
The centrality of the UN to South Africa’s foreign
engagement is based both on a strong belief in
collective and equitable global governance, but
also because of the UN’s role in the fight against
apartheid.
South Africa enthusiastically embraces its
responsibilities as an active member of the UN.
This is particularly the case as South Africa prepares
to enter the UN Security Council (UNSC) as a non-
permanent member from 2019.
Our election provides us with an opportunity to align
the work of the UN with that of the African Union
(AU) and to promote the positions we have adopted
when we campaigned for this non-permanent seat,
including the priorities of Agenda 2063.
Ours is a young, active and increasingly connected
continent.
With favourable demographics, high productivity
potential and ideal positioning as a springboard
into the rest of Africa, our country is an attractive
destination for growth-seeking investors.
Ranked 61 out of 147 in the World Economic Forum’s
latest Global Competitiveness Report and as the
continent’s second-biggest economy , South Africa
offers investors the stability of a well-regulated and
developed country , an effective legal environment,
cost competitiveness and reliable infrastructure.
Our banking system is solid, well-capitalised, well-
regulated and internationally respected.
There is no doubt that we have a very solid base to
work from.
Your Excellencies,
The advent of globalisation heralded a new future
that is highly connected and interdependent.
This means that there are a vast set of issues – from
climate change to cross-border crime – that cannot
be address by individual countries acting alone.
It is only through collective effort, supported by
multilateral institutions like the United Nations (UN),
that we have been able to address some of our
world’s most complex challenges.
As we witness the rise of extreme nationalism in
some parts of the world, and neo-isolationism takes
root in others, it is clear that the need for an effective,
rules-based multilateral system is greater than ever .
The very essence of the UN Charter is respect for
international law and the principles of international
justice as we seek, as a global collective, to live in
South Africa’s third term on the UNSC should build
on President Nelson Mandela’s legacy of working
towards a peaceful, just and prosperous world.
We must honour his legacy by serving as a bridge-
builder , bringing together divergent perspectives
and seeking peaceful resolution of any conflict.
We must continue to campaign for the reform of the
Security Council.
The current formation is antiquated, unrepresentative
and prejudicial to developing and smaller states.
The UNSC remains the primary international organ
mandated to promote international peace and
security .
It is essential that it remains true to its mandate
and moves beyond the paralysis brought on by the
geopolitical interests of a few member states.
The only way this can happen is if world leaders,
including those who represent the permanent
members of the Security Council, are bold and
courageous and commit to enlarging the UNSC
urgently .
Failure to do so will encourage states to start acting
unilaterally , with disastrous consequences for all.
As South Africa, we need to pay particular attention
to the intersection of the work of the UNSC and that
of the Peace and Security Council of the AU.
We should encourage greater cooperation and
collaboration to ensure a common approach to
ending conflict on the continent.
We will need to continue to be engaged with the
ongoing challenges in Lesotho, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, Madagascar , Zimbabwe, South

74 75
Sudan, Somalia, Central African Republic, Mali and
Libya.
The AU has established and consolidated a
comprehensive peace and security architecture. The
architecture is based on a paradigm that recognises
preventive diplomacy as central to eradicating
conflicts on our continent.
We will use our term in the UNSC to highlight and
advance the cause of the Palestinian and Saharawi
peoples.
Peace and security in Africa are inextricably linked to
its economic and social development.
The most effective way to ensure lasting stability is to
achieve economic growth that benefits all of Africa’s
people.
At the same time, peace and stability are a necessary
condition for faster and more inclusive growth.
South Africa played an active role in remodelling the
Organisation of African Unity into the AU, specifically
with the aim of strengthening Africa’s ability to
resolve conflict.
We will continue to support the institutional reforms
of the AU to ensure that it retains its agility in an ever-
changing and complex world.
We are resolute that such reforms should conform
to the AU Constitutive Act and not betray the Pan-
African philosophy of the founding leaders.
Your Excellencies,
On the multilateral level, this year marks the 10th
anniversary of the G20 being held at summit level.
The meeting this year takes place in the context
of uncertainty , increased unilateralism and
protectionism by some G20 members.
South Africa will continue to use its membership of the
G20 to promote inclusive growth and development
and support the Argentinian Presidency in its efforts
towards consensus-building and fair and sustainable
development.
I will be departing for Berlin later this week where I
will participate in the G20 Africa Conference, hosted
by Chancellor Merkel, where we will reflect on the
G20 Africa Partnership, inclusive of the Compact
with Africa that seeks to enhance private-sector
investment in Africa’s infrastructure.
Earlier this year , we successfully hosted the Brazil,
Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS)
countries, establishing the foundation for a decade
of greater cooperation, development and progress.
In addition to reaffirming our shared commitment
to multilateralism and the interests of the countries
of the Global South, we developed an ambitious
agenda for cooperation on the Fourth Industrial
Revolution and the opportunities provided by rapid
advances in technology .
We are also taking the Forum on China-Africa
Cooperation grouping towards a strategic
partnership, in which China will be a significant
partner in developing African infrastructure and
promoting regional integration.
South Africa will also be chairing the Indian Ocean
Rim Association, which we view as the pre-eminent
regional organisation linking Africa, the Middle East,
Asia and Australasia.
We will focus on uniting the diverse countries that
constitute the association behind an agenda of
peace, stability and sustainable development.
Your Excellencies,
We exist in an ever-changing and complex global
environment.
As a country , as a brand, as a trade partner and as
an investment destination, South Africa has what it
takes to compete on the world stage.
It is up to us to make sure we take full advantage of
the opportunities that exist for the benefit of all our
people.
We have emerged from a difficult decade, which has
dampened confidence and slowed our progress.
As we undertake the critical task of renewal and
rebuilding, we draw strength from the knowledge
that we stand on the shoulders of giants like Tata
Mandela and Mama Sisulu.
Their examples have shown us that we can triumph
over adversity .
They taught us that the race will never be won until
all South Africans are able to lead lives of dignity , in
peace and in prosperity .
Their lives provide ample evidence of the limitless
potential of the human spirit to persevere and to
prevail.
Working together as South Africans – and in concert
with partners across the globe – we can be certain
that we will indeed build a better Africa and a better
world.
I thank you.

76 77
CHAPTER 6
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIP OF THE
INDIAN OCEAN RIM ASSOCIATION (IORA)
I NDIAN O CEAN R IM A SSOCIATION

78 79
CHAPTER 6
SOUTH AFRICA’S CHAIRSHIPOF THE INDIAN OCEAN RIM ASSOCIATION (IORA)
Opening remarks and country statement by Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation, at the IORA Council of Ministers Meeting, 2 November 2018, Durban
Excellencies,
Distinguished Senior Officials and Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Sisulu who dedicated her life to the service of her
people under the theme: “ A Woman of Fortitude”.
These celebrations are a major milestone in the
incredible story of our nation’s journey to freedom
and liberation.
The legacy of former President Mandela lives on with
us as he left an indelible mark on our society , having
laid the foundation for a united, non-racial, non-
sexist, democratic and prosperous society in South
Africa. Internationally , President Mandela believed
in working towards a peaceful, just and prosperous
world. Similarly , for us in the Indian Ocean region, he
left a legacy through his vision of an Indian Ocean
Rim for socio-economic cooperation and other
peaceful endeavours. Therefore, I am extremely
pleased that this year’s COM will honour and pay
tribute to its founding father and global icon.
In this regard, I am delighted to introduce to
you Her Excellency and HRH Princess Zenani
Mandela-Dlamini. As the daughter of former
President Mandela, and South Africa’s current High
Commissioner to the Republic of Mauritius where
IORA is based, we could think of no better person to
invite to attend the COM as a special guest, and with
whom to engage at our special luncheon retreat on
ways of “Enhancing the Mandela Legacy in IORA ”.
We are humbled by your presence, Excellency .
Dear Colleagues,
This year’s COM takes place at a critical time in global
politics and international relations. The geostrategic
importance and profile of the Indian Ocean region
are growing rapidly , with an unprecedented focus
and attention on the potential contribution that
the region can and should be making towards
global security , economic growth and sustainable
development.
At a time when the coherence and stability of the
global multilateral system are being tested severely ,
IORA provides us with a unique opportunity to
enhance the spirit of multilateralism within one of
Before I begin, let me express our sincere
condolences to the Government and people of
Indonesia in respect of the Lion Air JT610 airplane
crash and the deadly earthquake and tsunami in
the Central Sulawesi Island, as well as to the other
member states that have experienced tragic national
disasters recently . My fellow sisters and brothers,
please be assured that the council’s thoughts and
prayers are with you and your people during this
difficult period, and we extend our sympathy to
those families who have lost their loved ones. I would
like to ask that we observe a moment of silence as a
sign of respect.
It is a tremendous honour for me to welcome you
all once again to the beautiful port city of Durban
in the majestic Zulu Kingdom of KwaZulu-Natal for
the 18th Meeting of the IORA Council of Ministers
(COM).
This is a very special year , not only for South Africa,
but also for some of our member countries. In our
country and all across the world, we are celebrating
the centenary of former President Nelson Mandela.
We remember Madiba as our founding father , having
served as the first President of a democratic South
Africa. He will forever hold a special place in our
hearts because of his values and dedication to
the service of humanity as well as acknowledging
his contribution to the struggle for democracy
internationally and the promotion of a culture of
peace throughout the world. Nelson Mandela was a
true icon of democracy .
We also remember the role that Mohandas (Mahatma)
Gandhi played in leading India to independence from
British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights
and freedom across the world, including in South
Africa, where we acknowledge and celebrate his
contribution to our struggle through his Satyagraha
movement. He came to South Africa in 1893 and
stayed here until 1914, while continuously opposing
discrimination in South Africa’s four British colonies
at the time.
This year , we also celebrate the centenary of the birth
of Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, founder of the
United Arab Emirates (UAE), who is remembered for
his deep religious faith, vision, determination and
hard work; his generosity at home and abroad; and
the way in which he devoted his life to the service of
his people and the creation of a better world.
Therefore, to my Vice Chair HE Ahmed Ali Mohamed
Abdulla Alsayegh of the UAE, a special welcome to
South Africa. We look forward to working closely with
you on a common trajectory to take IORA forward
before we hand over to the UAE at the next COM. We
also look forward to confirming the new incoming
Vice Chair at this time.
To the Secretary-General of IORA, Ambassador
Dr Nomvuyo Nokwe, we have taken note of the good
work that you and the Secretariat are engaged with,
and once more we look forward to working closely
with you in strengthening IORA even further .
We gather here during a historic year in South
Africa’s post-apartheid history . We celebrate the
centenary year of two of our heroes and icons:
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela under the theme: “Be
the Legacy”, and Mama Albertina Nontsikelelo
the most diverse regions of the world, comprising
a heterogeneous mix of developed countries,
developing countries, small island states and least
developed countries.
IORA can become a beacon of hope for
multilateralism and regional cooperation in the
world.  As a collective, we are taking this opportunity
to build and expand our understanding and mutually
beneficial cooperation through IORA ’s consensus-
based evolutionary and non-intrusive approach.
As a group, we must use this approach to promote
cohesiveness and unity within the region, while
resisting the emerging and very real threat of
geopolitical rivalry taking root in the Indian Ocean
region. As member states of IORA, it is our space to
protect and develop for the mutual benefit of all our
peoples. We cannot do this alone.
Our vision for the region is encapsulated in our
theme for our Chairship: “IORA: Uniting the
Peoples of Africa, Asia, Australasia and the Middle
East through Enhanced Cooperation for Peace,
Stability and Sustainable Development”. This theme
encompasses South Africa’s view that the Indian
Ocean region should be characterised as a region of
peace, stability and development; and we consider
IORA as the pre-eminent regional organisation within
which to pursue this ambitious goal.
Over the past year of our Chairship, we have been
working tirelessly to strengthen the institution,
including the Secretariat, and we were delighted to
have hosted a Technical Workshop in Mauritius in
March that was aimed at improving the capacity and
efficiency of the Secretariat in supporting the IORA
member state activities going forward. We would
like to see such an engagement regularised on the
calendar of IORA events annually .
As an association, we must be dynamic and make
sure that our structures and processes can adapt
to the shifts in global trends and our own priorities.
The association’s institutional structure, through the
Charter , is thus also being reformed to ensure that

80 81
it is able to accommodate and respond to the new
priorities and goals that we have identified in the
Jakarta Concord and its Action Plan (2017 – 2021)
to take the association into its third decade and
beyond. A revised charter will give us this necessary
flexibility and longevity .
To this end, we are establishing new dedicated
functional bodies to deal specifically with IORA ’s
priorities in areas such as maritime safety and
security , the Blue Economy , women’s economic
empowerment and tourism. At the same time, we
are also looking to revitalise existing institutional
mechanisms to enhance trade and investment
facilitation, with a focus on the promotion of small
and medium enterprises, while also strengthening
and increasing the role of academia in IORA, as was
envisaged at the founding of the association.
As we have seen in Indonesia and around the world
recently , the importance of improving resilience
and responses for disaster risk management in the
region cannot be overemphasised. This is an area of
priority focus that we will need to take forward with
haste, including the implementation of the IORA
Memorandum of Understanding on Search and
Rescue.
Sustainable and responsible fisheries management
and development, including dealing with the
important issue of illegal, unreported and
unregulated fishing, are also priority issues that will
receive attention during the remaining time of South
Africa’s Chairship.
Further , we are focussed on consolidating IORA ’s
membership and look forward to considering
the applications of countries wishing to join the
association as full member states, along with an
increasing interest among countries outside of the
region to join IORA as dialogue partners. This is
testament to the growing importance and relevance
of this organisation globally , and we are developing
mechanisms and criteria to deepen and broaden our
engagement with, and support from, our dialogue
partners.
Likewise, IORA continues to also develop and
expand its relationships with international bodies and
agencies, and we welcome a number of memoranda
of understanding between IORA and international
institutions, as well as among IORA member states
for cooperation in areas such as search and rescue,
and in promoting small and medium enterprises.
In conclusion, IORA is an organisation on the
ascendency and one that cannot and should not be
ignored.
Once more, it is my pleasure to welcome you all to
South Africa. In the event that you may wish us to
attend to any of your concerns during your stay in
Durban, please do let us know and we shall do our
best to respond accordingly . As I conclude, I would
also like to thank the province of KwaZulu-Natal and
the City of Durban, eThekwini, for their generosity
and collaboration with us in hosting this meeting in
this beautiful province.
I thank you.

82 83
CHAPTER 7
SOUTH AFRICA INVESTMENT CONFERENCE

84 85
CHAPTER 7
SOUTH AFRICA INVESTMENT CONFERENCE
Opening address by President Cyril Ramaphosa at the South Africa Investment Conference,
Sandton Convention Centre, Johannesburg, 26 October 2018
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am pleased to welcome you all to this inaugural
investment conference.
We are pleased and humbled that you have responded
to the call by the Government and the people of
South Africa to participate in this conference and
thus be part of a new dawn in our country .
As representatives of the domestic and international
investment community , as representatives of
business organisations and international financial
institutions, by your presence here, you have chosen
to walk with us along the path of growth, employment
and shared prosperity .
Like us, you believe that South Africa is a land of
opportunity – a land where the soil is rich and the
oceans teem with life, where the beautiful vistas of
our country are spectacular and its diverse people
are vibrant and resilient.
For you know that its people are its great wealth.
Like us, you believe that there is vast potential in
South Africa; and that it has enormous potential
that has been constrained for decades by narrow
prejudice and debilitating human neglect.
Together with us, you celebrated the miracle of our
peaceful transition to democracy .
You were there when we began to rebuild our
economy and fundamentally change the fortunes of
our people.
You witnessed both our achievements and our
missteps.
You supported us and wanted us to succeed as you
wished us well.
And when we stumbled, you looked on with concern
and disillusionment when it seemed that we may
squander the remarkable inheritance of Nelson
Rolihlahla Mandela.
Yet, throughout these difficulties, you have retained an
abiding interest as both domestic and international
business in the fortunes of this country .
We know that, like the people of South Africa, you
have harboured a profound hope that we will prevail.
This inaugural South Africa Investment Conference
is therefore an expression of a shared hope and a
renewed confidence.
It is a bold and unequivocal statement that we are
determined to put behind us the period of uncertainty
and discord and embrace a future of cooperation
and partnership.
We are here to declare that we are determined to
build a country that is driven by enterprise and
innovation, to develop an economy that is diverse and
resilient and prosperous, and to create companies
that achieve sustained returns not only for their
shareholders, but also for the workers that drive them
and the communities that support them.
We are a country that is rich in ways that we often do
not appreciate.
There are few places in the world that have the
abundance of minerals that lie beneath the ground
on which we now stand, that have the soil to sustain
such a diversity of plants, crops, livestock and game,
where the sun shines nearly all year around and
where the golden beaches stretch on forever .
We have an incredible natural inheritance, whose
economic and social value we have not yet even
begun to effectively explore.
Our political and social inheritance, by contrast, is
deeply contradictory .
Through decades of deliberate underdevelopment,
the majority of South Africans were dispossessed
of their land, assets and livelihoods, and denied
the education and the skills that make meaningful
participation in the economic life of the country
possible.
The devastating effects of this manifest injustice
still define our society and severely constrain our
economic development.
The continued exclusion of millions of South Africans
– particularly as it relates to skills and to ownership
of assets – is the single greatest impediment to the
growth of our economy and the development of our
society .
It explains the persistence of poverty , unemployment
and inequality nearly 25 years into our democracy .
It is for this reason that we have placed economic
growth and job creation at the centre of our national
agenda.
It is for this reason too that we have prioritised
the education of our children and the skilling of
our workforce, and it is for this reason that we are
accelerating the provision of land and other assets
to the poor and marginalised.
And it is for this reason that in April this year we
launched an ambitious and, in the history of our
country , unprecedented, drive to raise at least
US$100 billion in new investment over five years.
We did so understanding that no meaningful growth
and no significant job creation would be possible
without a massive surge in productive investment in
the economy .
Over the last half year , as we have prepared for
this Investment Conference, our four Presidential
investment envoys – Phumzile Langeni, Jacko Maree,
Mcebisi Jonas and Trevor Manuel – have travelled
across the country and around the globe to meet
potential investors.
Invest SA, our award-winning investment promotion
and facilitation agency , has compiled an investment
book of projects that represent great potential.
Today , a number of local and international companies
will make announcements on investments to expand
existing operations in the country or establish new
ones.
In addition to the announcements that will be made
at this conference, we have received investment
pledges from a number of countries.
We have appointed task teams to work with these
countries to convert these pledges into investments.
We have emphasised the need for more South
African companies to lead the investment charge,
demonstrating that they have confidence in this
economy and in its ability to deliver decent and
reliable returns.
In furtherance of this, I call upon South African
companies to engage with our investment envoys on
their investment plans, including capital expenditure
programmes, so that we can have a better idea as a
nation what the future portends for our country on the
economic growth landscape.
This conference takes place in the wake of a number
of decisive measures we have embarked upon
in the last few months to improve the investment
environment.
Following thoroughgoing consultations with various
role players in our economy , we have been addressing
issues of policy uncertainty and regulatory obstacles
that have impeded investments in a number of
industries.
We have been working with the World Bank to
improve the ease of doing business in South Africa
and crafting a new Foreign Direct Investment strategy
for the country .
Invest SA is intensifying its facilitation and aftercare
service in terms of international best practice.
Together , we are working to fast-track investment
projects and reduce red tape.
As part of the decisive measures that we have
had to take, we have had to confront challenges in
some of our largest and most strategic state-owned
enterprises, which have experienced years of poor
governance, a decline in financial and operational
performance and corruption.
Given the crucial role of these state-owned enterprises
in the economy , as providers of critical infrastructure

86 87
and bulk services, it is essential that they be restored
as engines of growth and development.
We have replaced the leadership in several state-
owned enterprises, ensuring that we have people with
experience, integrity and the relevant skills who are
now leading the development and implementation
of sustainable business models.
As a country , we have also had to confront the bitter
reality that several public entities have been severely
affected by corruption and the phenomenon of state
capture.
One of the urgent measures we have had to take is
to end such corruption and hold those responsible
to account.
We have established a commission of inquiry into
state capture that has begun a thorough and far-
reaching investigation into these practices.
We have also established a commission of inquiry
into the South African Revenue Service and the
Public Investment Corporation, institutions that are
both vital to the effective functioning of our economy .
We are certain that these commissions will not
only unearth all instances of malfeasance and
governance failures, but will help to restore the
integrity , credibility and effectiveness of these
entities.
As we put in place the pillars of sustained growth
into the future, we are working to address immediate
concerns, specifically the effects of two quarters of
negative economic growth.
Last month, government announced an economic
stimulus and recovery plan that aims to restore
growth, save existing jobs and create new ones.
As part of this plan, we are taking immediate steps
to finalise reforms in key sectors like mining, oil and
gas, tourism and telecommunications – all of which
are sectors that have great potential for growth, but
which have been constrained by policy uncertainty .
The revised Mining Charter has been finalised.
This is the outcome of extensive and meaningful
consultation between government, community ,
labour and business and represents evidence of our
commitment to solving the challenges in the sector
collaboratively .
Government has decided to draft separate legislation
for the oil and gas industry , settling a long-standing
dispute that will provide direction and certainty to an
industry with great potential.
Through the publication of a new Integrated Resource
Plan for public comment, we have provided detail on
the country’s future energy requirements.
Government also signed off a number of outstanding
renewal energy supply agreements, bringing
significant further investment into a growing sector
of our economy .
We have finalised consultations with the
telecommunications industry and other stakeholders
to ensure the allocation of spectrum reduces
barriers to entry , promotes competition and reduces
costs to consumers.
Our independent communications regulator is
now preparing to license available high-demand
spectrum.
We have initiated a review of our visa regime to
facilitate greater arrivals of tourists, highly skilled
individuals, business people and investors.
We are reprioritising our budget – within the existing
fiscal framework – to invest more in those activities
that will boost growth, including agriculture, township
and rural businesses, and infrastructure.
We do so in a severely restricted fiscal environment.
As the Minister of Finance indicated when presenting
his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement earlier
in the week, we are determined to ensure public
spending remains within sustainable levels – and
that we generate greater revenue by pursuing
growth with a single-minded determination.
We see infrastructure investment as a critical enabler
of growth and job creation, and are therefore
consolidating government infrastructure spending
into a single Infrastructure Fund.
We intend to use that fund to leverage investments
from development finance institutions, multilateral
development banks, asset managers and
commercial banks.
A dedicated team will oversee the implementation of
an extensive infrastructure programme covering areas
like water , transport, energy , telecommunications and
social infrastructure.
Despite the challenges of the present, our economy
has several fundamental strengths that make it a
suitable destination for investment.
South Africa has established a diversified
manufacturing base that has shown its resilience and
potential to compete in the global economy .
Yesterday , I had occasion to open the R1-billion
Gibela passenger train manufacturing factory in this
province.
The investment is a collaboration between Alstom
from France and a local consortium made up of
black businesses and the community .
The factory employs 800 workers, of whom half are
women.
We applaud this investment as it confirms South
Africa’s manufacturing capability .
Multinationals with a presence in South Africa cite
numerous advantages, from excellent financial
systems to world-class infrastructure.
South Africa is a regional manufacturing and
services hub on the African continent, and, for many
companies, serves as a base to export products
globally .
We have done much work in recent years to improve
investment incentives, establishing, for example,
several special economic zones across the country ,
each having unique offerings for investors.
These include ready infrastructure for business
development, reduced costs for key inputs such as
land, water and electricity , and reduced corporate
tax rates.
We are determined that our economic policy must
facilitate inclusive growth.
Given our country’s history of dispossession, and
the continued economic exclusion of millions of
our people, we have a responsibility to bring all our
people into the economic mainstream.
Earlier this month, we convened a Presidential
Jobs Summit, which brought together government,
business, labour and the community sector to
determine a set of practical, achievable interventions
that would increase the pace of job creation.
The Jobs Summit agreed on more than 70 focussed
interventions that will, among other things, boost
domestic demand, increase and broaden exports,
create pathways for young people into work and
develop sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing,
mining and the waste economy .
In addition, we are intensifying work to build a robust
and effective education and skills development
system that equips our youth for the workplace of
tomorrow.
It is important to note that seven of South Africa’s
universities are in top 500 in the world.
There are nearly a million students in higher
education, and there has been a marked increase in
science, technology , engineering and mathematics
graduates.
We have implemented policies to promote black
economic empowerment, to provide black people,
women and people with disability with the assets
and opportunities they need to participate more
meaningfully in economic activity .
Another area that is critical to economic transformation
is land reform, which is currently a focus of intense
debate across South African society .

88
There is general agreement among most South
Africans that we need to accelerate land reform
not only to redress a historical injustice, but also
to effectively unlock the economic potential of the
country’s land.
We have appointed an Advisory Panel on Land
Reform, which comprises people with extensive
experience in farming, policy development,
academia and law.
The panel will advise government on the
implementation of a fair and equitable land reform
process that redresses the injustices of the past,
increases agricultural output, promotes economic
growth and protects food security .
We are committed as government to pursue a
comprehensive approach to land and agrarian
reform that ensures transformation, development
and stability , while providing certainty to those who
own land, to those who need land and to those who
are considering investing in the economy .
Our approach reaffirms the constitutional protection
of property rights, which, among other things,
prohibits the arbitrary deprivation of property .
Together with robust legislation to protect foreign
investments, an independent judiciary and the firm
rule of law, our Constitution should allay any fears that
investors may have of factories being expropriated.
South Africa’s strategic position at the tip of
Africa, makes it a key investment location, both for
opportunities that lie within its borders and as a
gateway to the rest of the region.
Earlier this year , African heads of state agreed to
the establishment of an African Continental Free
Trade Area that will provide access to a market of
more than 1,2 billion people and a combined gross
domestic product of more than $3,4 trillion.
This will fundamentally transform the economies
of many African countries and will further enhance
the attractiveness of South Africa – with its diverse
manufacturing base, advanced infrastructure and
sophisticated financial sector – as a compelling
investment destination.
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As South Africa emerges from a period of great
difficulty and uncertainty , as it confronts challenges
that are immense – but not insurmountable – we can
declare with confidence that South Africa is a land of
untold opportunity .
It is a land that has known the pain of division and
conflict and deprivation.
But, equally , it has experienced the exhilaration
of liberation and knows very well the value of
partnership and collaboration.
It is therefore our great pleasure to invite you
to become our partners in realising the great
possibilities that this country has to offer .
We invite you to invest in our mines and factories,
farms and game parks, call centres and technology
hubs, refineries and solar farms.
We invite you to invest in our people, to harness their
energy and unleash their latent capabilities.
We invite you to become valued partners in realising
the vision – and sharing the benefits – of a new era
of renewal, an era of discovery , an era of prosperity
and progress and promise.
I thank you.