seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue24_revised2.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue24_revised2.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue24_revised2.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 24
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
Tremendous progress has been made in addressing
the challenges faced as a country and a continent
in access to vaccines. As a result of negotiations
with pharmaceutical companies and various
developed-economy governments, South Africa
and Africa have been able to secure vaccines and
are able to manufacture vaccines on the continent.
Aspen, based in Gqeberha, Eastern Cape, will from
October 2021 be manufacturing vaccines solely for
the African continent.
The World Health Organisation has also chosen
South Africa as a hub for the manufacture of
vaccines. The Biovac Institute in Cape Town,
Western Cape, has been appointed to manufacture
the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for
distribution within Africa.
“The Coronavirus pandemic is the greatest threat to
the lives and health of our people and to the recovery
and transformation of our economy. We need to
continue to do everything in our means to contain
the spread of the virus. As we have always said, our
most effective weapon in the fight against COVID-19
is an effective and comprehensive vaccination
programme.”
– President Cyril Ramaphosa
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger – burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Yandisa Monakali, Katlholo Maifadi and Yolande Snyman, Department of International Relations and
Cooperation; Government Communication and Information System; South African Tourism; UN Photo; Counterspace; Mabi
Gabriel Thobejane Facebook page; Cameron Venti Unsplash; Marian de Pontes; Kruger Shalati Facebook page; Chris
Pizzello; Sindiwe Magona Facebook page; AdobeStock; Diriye Amey; klipopmekaar.co.za; SA Reserve Bank Facebook
page; Dirk van Rooyen; Pixabay; and Hougaard Malan
Acknowledgements
President Cyril Ramaphosa; Dr GNM Pandor, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Stella Ndabeni-
Abrahams, Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies; Candith Mashego-Dlamini, Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation; Alvin Botes, Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Ambassador Rapulane
Molekane, Permanent Representative of South Africa to the United Nations and other International Organisations in
Vienna, Austria; Dr Bobby J Moroe, Deputy High Commissioner of South Africa to the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Lesetja
Kganyago, Governor of the South African Reserve Bank; Ruth Simbao, South African Research Chair in Geopolitics and
the Arts of Africa, Rhodes University; John Luiz, Professor of International Business Strategy and Emerging Markets at the
University of Sussex and the Graduate School of Business, University of Cape Town (UCT); Dr Bhaso Ndzendze, Head
of the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Johannesburg (UJ); and Professor Tshilidzi
Marwala, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of UJ, Deputy Chairperson of the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial
Revolution and member of the Namibia Fourth Industrial Revolution Task Force; Enrico Bonadio, Reader in Intellectual
Property Law, City, University of London, and Magali Contardi, PhD Candidate, Intellectual Property Law, Universidad
de Alicante; Professor Justine Olawande Daramola, Cape Peninsula University of Technology; Ian Goldin, Professor of
Globalisation and Development and Director of the Oxford Martin Programmes on Technological and Economic Change and
Future of Development, University of Oxford; United Nations Environment Programme; David M Witelson, PhD Candidate,
University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), David Lewis-Williams, Emeritus Professor, Wits, David Pearce, Associate Professor,
Wits, and Sam Challis, Senior Research Scientist, Wits; Matthew Barac, Reader in Architecture, London Metropolitan
University; Liani Maasdorp, Senior Lecturer in Screen Production and Film and Television Studies, UCT, and Ian-Malcolm
Rijsdijk, Senior Lecturer in Film and Television Studies, UCT; Lindelwa Dalamba, Music Lecturer, Wits, and Phillippa Yaa
de Villiers, Poet and Lecturer in Creative Writing, Wits; Brent Lindeque, www.goodthingsguy.com; David Coplan, Professor
Emeritus, Social Anthropology, Wits; Puleng Segalo, Professor of Psychology, University of South Africa; www.sahistory.org.
za; and www.parliament.gov.za
Advertisers
Ubuntu Radio, African Union, World Food Programme, Freedom Park, Iziko Museums of South Africa, Department of
Environmental Affairs and Brand SA
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation, e-mail address and delivery
address in the body to kolio@dirco.gov.za.
Back-issue enquiries
kolio@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
Advertising
Nthabiseng Makuwa – makuwan@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0388
Distribution
Olwethu Koli – kolio@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0006

Lifestyle
82
48
contents
Diplomacy
In every issue
An Oscar for My Octopus
Teacher
The magnificent
Mabi Thobejane
LIFESTYLE
Feature
UBUNTU magazine – issue 24
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6  Letter from the Minister
8 Publisher’s note
80   Young female South African architects reinvent Serpentine Pavilion in
London
82  An Oscar for My Octopus Teacher is a boost for South African film.
But …
86  Remembering Zim Ngqawana 10 years on, a singular force in
 South African music
88  South African female film director answers Hollywood’s call
90 The magnificent Mabi Thobejane, master South African drummer
94 Learning from the story of pioneering South African writer
 Sindiwe Magona
96 Kruger Shalati: The Train on the Bridge
12  2021 to 2031: The Decade of African Roots and Diasporas
16   Comrade KK has left an Africa united and strong
18   Building back better, to advance the legacy of Charlotte
Maxeke
22   South Africa’s partnerships with Asia and the Middle East are
crucial
26   Justice for the Palestinian people
28   South Africa committed to remain an influential actor and
partner on the international stage
30   South Africa’s foreign policy draws on the spirit of
internationalism
32   Advancing the African Agenda and seeking a better world
34  South Africa and Nigeria – the continental giants with a
sometimes uneasy, but always symbiotic relationship
38   Liberation heritage: Ray Alexander-Simons
40  Remembering the legacy of the Young Lions of 1976: The
power of youth as agents of social change
44  Capturing the Soweto Uprising: South Africa’s most iconic
photograph lives on
46  Africa’s free trade area offers great promise. But only if risks
are managed with resolve
48 SA Reserve Bank celebrates 100 years of excellence
SA Reserve Bank celebrates 100 years of excellence
52  Rooibos tea: EU protection is good news for South African agriculture
54  A portal designed especially for informal businesses could be a
game-changer
56   The SDGs and South Africa’s Fourth Industrial Revolution
Commission recommendations
58  Accelerating digital transformation in challenging times with national,
regional and international initiatives
62  COVID-19 has shown that following the same road will lead the world
over a precipice
64  Progress made but world set to miss environment-related Sustainable
Development Goals – UN report
66   An ancient San rock art mural in South Africa reveals new meaning
68 Flying the flag
90
16
Comrade KK has
left an Africa united
and strong
26
Justice for the Palestinian people

Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
6 7
Letter from the minister
apply universally and not for a privileged few.
Our Constitution firmly affirms those beliefs.
 Idah Mtwana, Helen Joseph and Ray
Alexander came from vastly different
backgrounds, yet are united in the Constitution
by the full recognition of the rights of workers
and the protections they should enjoy. Mary
Burton promoted gender equality and the
rights of all, drawing on these brave men and
women and their core beliefs.
 The sacrifices, bravery and fearlessness of
the young people of 1976, of Mashinini, Hector
Peterson, Antoinette Peterson and thousands
of others gave life to the right to education and
to children’s rights in our document.
 Those who shaped the Constitution of South
Africa number millions. It does not belong to a
few; it is our instrument of freedom honouring
Kwame Nkurumah, Patrice Lumumba and
Sekotore.
 We in Parliament and government have
a critical role to play in honour of these men
and women and millions others. We need
to consistently ensure that the ambitions
of service to the people are honoured and
realised; that we do support the maturing of a
nation united in its diversity. And, that all rights
enshrined in the Constitution are accessed
and enjoyed by all people in South Africa. We
strive for this not just for ourselves but for all
men and women who suffer oppression and
exclusion today. This is why we are mandated
to stand shoulder to shoulder with the people
of Palestine, of Saharawi, of Cuba and of
Myanmar. They too will overcome as our
leaders and our people ensured South Africa
overcame.
 This history of framing our Constitution
must be read today alongside the still visible
remnants of systematic exploitation and
discrimination that continue to scar our nation
due to centuries of colonialism and exclusion.
The key challenge all of us face is to strengthen
our efforts at reversing the precarious socio-
economic situation in which millions of the most
vulnerable find themselves. We acknowledge
that much has been achieved but the full
realisation of our Constitution demands much
more of each of us.
fought for by the Khoisan in the beginning of
the struggle. Their desire to settle on their land
and derive sustenance from it, to breed and
rear their cattle and not to be pushed to the
margins are embodied in the transformative
land rights and recognition of communities
elaborated in 1996.
 The epic confrontations of the frontier wars
of the Xhosa, the Basotho and the Barolong,
their dispossession and displacement and
their yearnings are mirrors in the aspirations
of nationhood and unity in the Constitution.
The brave heroism of Makhanda, Xhosa,
Moshoeshoe, Bathoeng and Sekhukhune
reverberate.
 Our Constitution was crafted over centuries
of experience. This is why we can refer to the
African claims of 1946, the Freedom Charter
of 1955, the Sharpeville Massacre of 1960, the
assertion that Africa is for Africans by Robert
Sobukwe and the courage and steadfastness
of Steven Bantu Biko in his belief that given
opportunity, the oppressed will achieve
excellence and determine their destiny.
 Added to these influences are illustrious
women fighters such as Charlotte Maxeke,
who showed women’s place is in struggle.
Albertina Sisulu, who withstood banning prison
and brutal assault on family, yet emerged with
dignity and compassion for South Africa and all
her people. Winnie Madikizela Mandela, who
would never give up believing that struggle
would lead to victory. It is Mama Winnie whose
undying spirit must persuade us to consistently
believe that the progressive ambitions of our
Constitution will be realised and that we must
never tire of wanting to achieve realisation of
its key goals for every person in South Africa.
 There is the leadership of Oliver Tambo and
the African National Congress constitutional
committee in formulating Ready to Govern to
prepare for drafting a constitution that draws
from our history, our lived experience and our
ambitions. Luminaries such as Kader Asmal,
Zola Skweyiya and Frene Ginwala all played
a role. Human rights lawyers such as Justice
Mohammed, Arthur Chaskalson and Nelson
Mandela believed just laws and accessible
judicial institutions were plausible and should
T
his year, we commemorate 25
years since the adoption of the
Constitution of a South Africa
finally freeing itself from the
shackles of apartheid.
 We agreed that our thematic
focus for 2021 would be extolling and
recollecting our national heroine Charlotte
Maxeke, a woman of distinction who marked
her place in history through excellence,
commitment and service. It is absolutely
fitting to mark such heroes and heroines as
they have left an indelible mark on the socio-
political landscape of our country.
 The compilation and adoption of our
Constitution was one of the boldest decisions
taken by our infant democracy. It signalled
a decisive and necessary break with our
past while simultaneously setting out clear,
progressive, and even radical aspirations for
the future.
 Our Constitution is a result of a long journey
by the people of South Africa, of Africa and
the world. It draws us together in a manner
that no single legal instrument does and is
extraordinary testimony of the ingenuity and
humanity of millions of South Africans and the
legion of men, women and communities who
entrenched the values and principles that are
emphatically elaborated in it.
 The Constitution weaves together the
struggles for humane treatment and fair play
Our Constitution is a result of a long journey by the people of South Africa, of Africa and
the world. It draws us together in a manner that no single legal instrument does and
is extraordinary testimony of the ingenuity and humanity of millions of South Africans
and the legion of men, women and communities who entrenched the values and
principles that are emphatically elaborated in it.

Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
8 9
Publisher’s note | Let’s talk foreign policy...
I
n the 24th edition of Ubuntu magazine, I
thought I should reflect on South Africa’s
engagements/record on human rights
matters in the United Nations (UN) and
other international fora.
 Eyebrows were raised when South Africa
appeared to be opposing an initiative in the
Security Council (SC) on the COVID-19
global pandemic. This was a principle matter
for us. South Africa’s work in fighting the
COVID-19 pandemic is well documented. We
are on record on the issue of calling for the
vaccination programme to be rolled out in a
fair and equitable manner.
 All countries must get vaccines and must
get them speedily. It is vital to the global
containment of COVID-19, that vaccination
takes place in all countries and among all
populations. Unfortunately, challenges of
accessing vaccines for developing countries,
particularly in Africa, remain.
 In this regard, South Africa, India and
other like-minded countries have called on the
World Trade Organisation to temporarily waive
Since its launch in 2013, South Africa’s first,
24-hour online radio station has been setting
in motion dialogue on South Africa’s foreign
policy.
In celebration of its first anniversary in 2014,
UbuntuRadio launched on DSTV’s audio
bouquet, increasing its reach to over 45
African countries and over 10 million potential
listeners. In addition to the mobile application
accessible globally, the UbuntuRadio Mxit
Application is also available to a potential 80
million users.

Follow the award winning station on Twitter
and listen live on www.ubunturadio.com.
SOUTH AFRICA’S
PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
IN ACTION
RADIO
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE ON SMARTPHONES
Ubuntu Radio Android App Ubuntu Radio BlackBerry App Ubuntu Radio Iphone/Ipad App
 Ubuntu Radio mxit App
@UbuntuRadioZA
UbuntuRadioZA
UbuntuRadioZA
STUDIO NUMBER +27 (0) 12 329 2239 www.ubunturadio.com
Listen Live
specific intellectual property obligations related
to the prevention and treatment of COVID-19
for a defined period and within defined
parameters.
 This would enable countries in Africa and
elsewhere to access active pharmaceutical
ingredients and benefit from technology
transfer, including the know-how to
manufacture vaccines in Africa at a cheaper
cost.
 Back to the UNSC matter. South Africa’s
recent term as an elected member of the
UNSC ended in December 2020. When the
COVID-19 initiative came up for a discussion,
South Africa called for the SC to consider
the pandemic in the context of its linkages to
threats of international peace and security.
The health or development dimensions of
the pandemic are dealt with in other UN
organs and agencies. South Africa therefore
consistently maintained that the SC should
consider the impact of the pandemic within the
parameters of the council’s mandate, which is
to maintain international peace and security.
South Africa also called on the SC to support
the UN Secretary-General’s (SG) call for the
easing of sanctions so as to allow affected
countries to deal with the economic impact
of the pandemic. This was rejected by other
members of the UNSC.
 One has observed that when some
permanent members of the UNSC fail to
get results at the council due to the use of
veto, they then use the UN Human Rights
Council (HRC) to get results. The UN SG,
António Guterres, refers to this as the
“instrumentalisation” of human rights and has
repeatedly warned against it. Interestingly,
one of the key outcomes that some countries
want from the upcoming review of the HRC is
a direct link between the HRC and the UNSC,
as opposed to the HRC being accountable to
the UN General Assembly.
 Essentially, arguments put forward by
some countries that the UNSC should address
issues that are extraneous to its mandate,
such as human rights, climate change or
development issues, undermine other parts
of the UN and the wider multilateral system
tasked with addressing these issues. This
ultimately weakens the multilateral system,
as the perception is that the only body that is
important and which matters is the UNSC. It also
undermines the authority and mandate of more
representative, and often more democratic,
bodies such as the General Assembly or the
HRC. The reality is that bringing human rights
matters to the UNSC also allows these issues
to be subject to the geopolitical divisions and
paralysis that many highly contentious issues
on the SC’s agenda face, specifically when the
permanent members utilise their veto, or threat
of the veto, to prevent any action.
 An honest assessment of South Africa’s
record in this area since 1994, will show
our country’s massive success in efforts at
advocating for the human rights of people living
under foreign and colonial occupation, such
as those in Palestine and Western Sahara,
specifically at the UN General Assembly, the
UNSC and the HRC. South Africa has also
provided leadership on efforts in advancing
the implementation on the Women, Peace
and Security Agenda, specifically during South
Africa’s last term on the UNSC.
 South Africa will never deviate from a
foreign policy anchored in respect and the
promotion of human rights. Human rights
remain our ultimate tool to help societies grow
in freedom – to ensure equality for women
and girls, advance sustainable development,
prevent conflict, reduce human suffering and
build a just and equitable world.
 As the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights proclaims; human rights are “humanity’s
highest aspiration”.
@ClaysonMonyela
All countries must get vaccines and must get them speedily. It is vital to the global
containment of COVID-19, that vaccination takes place in all countries and among all
populations. Unfortunately, challenges of accessing vaccines for developing countries,
particularly in Africa, remain.

Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
10 11
Betty's Bay is a small holiday town situated in the Overberg region of the Western Cape. It is located 96 km from Cape Town beneath the rugged
Kogelberg Mountains and is on the scenic R44 ocean drive between Pringle Bay and Kleinmond.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
12
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  13
Since the countries of Africa gained their independence, as apartheid and minority rule
were defeated, we have sought to cultivate the relationships between the peoples of
Africa and the Caribbean Diaspora.
2021 to 2031:
The Decade of African Roots
and Diasporas
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
O
n 25 May 2021, we
celebrated Africa Day.
 On that day, we
celebrated the unity of the
African people, those who
live on the continent and
those in the Diaspora.
 We celebrated the ties that bind us together
– ties that no ocean, no slave trader, no war
and no pandemic can tear asunder.
 We commemorated the establishment of
the Organisation of African Unity nearly 60
years ago, in 1963.
 The world was a vastly different place back
then.
 Jamaica had just gained independence
the year before, joining a wave of movements
THE DECADE OF AFRICAN ROOTS AND DIASPORASTHE DECADE OF AFRICAN ROOTS AND DIASPORAS
The Diaspora is the
symbolic sixth region of
the continent, signalling
our desire to build ever-
closer relations and
our determination to
deepen collaboration
between bodies like the
African Union and the
Caribbean Community.
that were sweeping across much of the Global
South.
 The people of South Africa were still
suffering under a racist regime, and it would be
a full 31 years before we attained our freedom.
 The great luminaries and thinkers of the
Caribbean were at the heart of the Pan-Africanist
movements that inspired our own liberation
struggle.
 Among them were CLR James and Henry
Sylvester Williams of Trinidad, Frantz Fanon
of Martinique, Walter Rodney of Guyana and
Marcus Mosiah Garvey of Jamaica.
 I also speak of General Toussaint Louverture,
who was the leader of the Haitian revolution,
of the Cuban internationalists, and of the
many men and women from the region who
played a leading role in the struggles against
oppression, racism, fascism and colonialism.
 I speak of Robert Nesta Marley, one of
Jamaica’s most famous sons, whose music
didn’t define just one generation, but continues
to provide hope and inspiration to people around
the world even today.
 It was these sons and daughters of Africa
whose ideas, proclamations and actions
contributed so much to the drive for African
unity, independence and self-reliance.
 We remember with the deepest of humility
and gratitude, the invaluable support that
Jamaica gave to our struggle for liberation.
 Jamaica was one of the first countries
to impose a trade embargo on apartheid
South Africa, and supported successive
The Diaspora agenda is now fully integrated
into the activities of the African Union (AU).
 For example, the Citizens and Diaspora
Directorate of the AU is working on documenting
the valuable work of diasporas in providing
humanitarian assistance in emergencies and
pandemics.
 The Diaspora has an important role to play
in meeting the aspirations of the AU’s Agenda
2063 and in helping African countries to meet
the Sustainable Development Goals.
 At the 34th Ordinary Session of the
Assembly of the AU in February 2021, the
years 2021 to 2031 were declared as the
Decade of African Roots and Diasporas.
 This is an initiative aimed at strengthening
the role and contribution of people from
African roots and diasporas to the economic,
social and cultural development of the African
continent.
 The Diaspora is the symbolic sixth region
of the continent, signalling our desire to build
ever-closer relations and our determination
to deepen collaboration between bodies
like the AU and the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM).
 Many people in the African Diaspora are
actively engaged in the continent’s development.
 This global African community represents
a vast pool of knowledge, expertise, energy
and commitment able to make a tremendous
contribution to Africa’s growth and progress.
 The AU’s theme for 2021 is: “Arts, Culture
and Heritage: Levers for Building the Africa we
Want”.
 This is part of our effort to enhance the
contribution of art, culture and heritage as
catalysts for social and economic development
and integration.
 It is an opportunity to explore, celebrate and
develop all of Africa’s cultural treasures.
 Our shared histories provide many
opportunities to deliver a united message to
the world about the vast potential of the African
continent.
 These are opportunities to influence policies
that unlock trade, investment and development.
 At the same time, our common histories
and experiences must be harnessed in the
cause of justice for the descendants of victims
of the transatlantic slave trade.
 We commend the advocacy of the
Government of Jamaica as part of the
CARICOM Reparations Commission for
reconciliation, truth and justice for victims of
slavery and their descendants.
 Just as the world must recognise the horrific
crimes committed against people of African
descent, so too must it acknowledge that the
devastating social and economic legacy of
slavery continues into the present.
This is about a struggle to recognise the inter-
generational trauma that lingers still, and that
has held back development of whole societies.
 It is about the restoration of dignity, about
justice and about building a better future for all.
Now more than ever, as the world confronts
this grave pandemic, we are called upon to act
in unity and solidarity.
 As we stood together against colonialism,
apartheid and injustice, now we must stand
together to overcome the Coronavirus
pandemic.
 Our struggle, however, is not just against a
virus.
 It is a struggle against the deep inequalities
that have so severely hampered global efforts
to contain the pandemic, and have left so many
societies vulnerable to hardship and despair.
 It is therefore a priority that we must confront
and overcome all forms of global injustice that
favour the few at the expense of the many.
 We must confront the vaccine apartheid
that is allowing wealthy countries to buy up
vaccines while less-resourced developing
countries languish in the queue.
 South Africa and India have sponsored
a proposal at the World Trade Organisation
for a temporary Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights waiver to allow
countries in need to produce COVID-19
vaccines and medical products.
 I thank Jamaica for supporting the proposal
from the floor. With its support, and the support
of an ever-growing list of countries, I have no
doubt we will prevail.
 We also welcome your ongoing support for
the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator as
it works to provide equitable access for all to
vaccines, diagnostics and treatment.
 On Africa Day 2021, it was our ardent wish
that we deepen our collaboration to overcome
poverty, inequality, underdevelopment, disease,
illiteracy, gender-based violence and conflict.
United Nations (UN) resolutions aimed at the
elimination of apartheid.
 In 1987, the President of the African National
Congress (ANC), Oliver Tambo, visited Jamaica
and delivered an important speech in Kingston
on the unity of the African Diaspora.
 We recall the joyous reception that Nelson
Mandela received in Jamaica in 1991, following
his release from prison.
 It is a testament to the unwavering support
of the Jamaican people for the struggle
for our freedom that three Jamaican prime
ministers – PJ Patterson, Edward Seaga and
Michael Manley – have been bestowed with
our National Order of the Companions of OR
Tambo.
 That cherished relationship continues into
the present, driving our shared efforts to build
a more just, peaceful and inclusive global
community.
 Our common African heritage provides the
rich soil from which our common future will
grow.
 Since the countries of Africa gained their
independence, as apartheid and minority rule
were defeated, we have sought to cultivate the
relationships between the peoples of Africa
and the Caribbean Diaspora.
 The inaugural Global African Diaspora
Summit in Johannesburg in 2012 was the
culmination of years of engagements and
consultations, giving clear form and focus to
our collective aspirations.
 We must acknowledge the progress that we
have made in forging unity within the Diaspora.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
14
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  15
and that its success is fundamentally tied to
harnessing the potential and energies of its
people, including in the Diaspora.
 The AfCFTA will improve the prospects of
Africa as an attractive investment destination.
 It will advance the empowerment of Africa’s
women by improving women’s access to
trade opportunities, which will in turn facilitate
economic freedom for women and expand the
productive capacity of countries.
 As nations that have known oppression
and the denial of rights, we remain forever on
the side of justice for the oppressed, wherever
they are.
 We must all be concerned about the
resurgence in many parts of the world of
racism, ultra-nationalism, xenophobia and
other forms of intolerance.
 We stand united behind the Black Lives
Matter movement because it is black men,
women and children who are more often than
not on the receiving end of prejudice and
violence.
 Ours is a movement for respect for human
rights and for the affirmation of our dignity.
 In the words of Marcus Garvey:
 “Our desire is for a place in the world; not to
disturb the tranquility of others, but to lay down
In doing so, we are guided by the overarching
objective of finding African solutions to African
problems.
 During our tenure as a non-permanent
member of the UN Security Council in 2019,
South Africa and other African members of
the council worked closely with the Caribbean
nation of St Vincent and the Grenadines.
 This organic cooperation was a practical
demonstration of Africa-Caribbean partnership
for peace and security.
 We share a common commitment to
building a continent that is stable, developed,
prosperous and capable of delivering the
better life that all its people yearn for.
 Sustainable peace can only be achieved
by building a just world and a rules-based
international order that is inclusive and that
addresses the root causes of conflict, such as
poverty and underdevelopment.
 In January 2021, the Africa Continental
Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) came into
operation. It establishes a continental market
of some 1.3 billion people. This is a major
milestone towards the economic integration of
our continent.
 This is the clearest affirmation that Africa is
determined to take charge of its own destiny,
THE DECADE OF AFRICAN ROOTS AND DIASPORAS
President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, 25 May 2021, participated in a webinar marking the celebration of Africa Day.
 The President’s participation in the webinar, titled, “A Conversation with Africa”, under the theme, “A Destiny of Peace, Prosperity, Strength and
Unity”, was at the invitation of Jamaican Prime Minister Andrew Holness.
 The Presidency in an advisory said the event was part of a series of webinars that started earlier this year, aimed at enhancing the relationship
between Africa and the Caribbean.
 They are hosted by a collaboration between the South African High Commission in Kingston and the Jamaican Ministry of Culture, Gender,
Entertainment and Sports.
 “The initiative aims to strengthen and boost South Africa-Jamaica bilateral relations and further revive the broader Africa-Caribbean Partnership,
and as a result, forge even stronger strategic, economic, cultural and political cooperation between the two countries,” the advisory read.
 The two countries enjoy a special relationship and share a tradition of pursuing racial equality.
 The Presidency said Africa Day was a very important day for the people of the continent and those in the Diaspora, as it commemorated the
establishment of the then Organisation of African Unity (OAU). The OAU in 2002 became the African Union, especially for its role in decolonisation
and African independence.
 President Ramaphosa and Prime Minister Holness were joined by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Senator Kamina Johnson Smith;
Minister of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, Olivia Grange: and South Africa’s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation,
Dr Naledi Pandor, in the webinar.
SAnews.gov.za
i
THE DECADE OF AFRICAN ROOTS AND DIASPORAS
our burden and rest our weary backs and feet
by the banks of the Niger, and sing our songs
and chant our hymns to the God of Ethiopia.
 “Yes, we want rest from the toil of centuries,
rest of political freedom, rest of economic and
industrial liberty, rest to be socially free and
unmolested, rest from lynching and burning,
rest from discrimination of all kinds.”
 As a people who have known centuries
of oppression, we have a moral duty to stand
with the Palestinian people and the people of
Western Sahara in their quests for nationhood
and self-determination.
 We know that freedom for only some is
freedom for none.
 We share a common position that reform of
the UN system is urgently needed.
 We need a fair system of global governance
that allows for the voices of all countries to be
heard, regardless of their economic strength or
militarily might.
 Let us unite, let us work together and let us
continue the onward march to prosperity and
progress.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
16
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  17
DiPLomacy | COMRADE KK HAS LEFT AN AFRICA UNITED AND STRONG
He has left us, but we know that what he stood for, the standard of leadership he set,
and his progressive ideals live on.
Comrade KK has left an
Africa united and strong
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
F
ormer President Kenneth
David Kaunda passed away
on 17 June 2021 in Lusaka,
Zambia. Born on 28 April 1924,
in Lubwa, near Chinsali, in the
then Northern Rhodesia, he led
Zambia to independence in 1964 and served
as that country’s President until 1991.
 South Africa joined the people of Zambia
and all the peoples of our continent in mourning
the passing of our great leader and father.
 Dr Kaunda was a loyal friend of the South
African people. He stood by us during our long
struggle for liberation.
 Even as the brutal apartheid regime
sought to wreak havoc in the frontline
states in its efforts to destroy the liberation
movement, Dr Kaunda stood firm, and never
wavered in his support for the people of
South Africa and the region.
 Zambia provided us with material and moral
support, and gave refuge to our leaders.
 South Africa is grateful we could
acknowledge Dr Kaunda’s great role in our
struggle for freedom during his lifetime.
 In 2002, he was bestowed with one of
our highest national orders, the Order of the
Companions of OR Tambo in Gold.
Dr Kaunda was one of the last surviving
leaders of the generation who lit the path to
Africa’s freedom from colonial misrule.
 He has left us, but we know that what he
stood for, the standard of leadership he set,
and his progressive ideals live on.
 Dr Kaunda was a man for all seasons.
 As a freedom fighter, he led the liberation
movement to victory and independence.
 As a president, he led with humility and
selflessness. He walked among the people.
 He refused to surround himself with the
trappings of power and influence. He was a
man of extraordinary empathy.
 He was often moved to tears of compassion
against injustice.
 He was an elder statesman who even
after leaving office played an important role in
national life, advocating for important causes
like HIV/AIDS, peace and conflict resolution.
 He was a lifelong Pan-Africanist who worked
to advance African unity and integration. He
loved young people. He wrote of how being
among youth always filled him with humility
and respect.
 He called on Africa’s youth to work hard,
to reject lives of idleness and vice, and to be
part of nation-building, saying: “The fate of this
country is in their hands”.
 He was a champion of African self-reliance.
We draw strength and inspiration from this now
more than ever, as we find ourselves in the grip
of a deadly pandemic.
 He would be proud to see us working
together to bring recovery to our continent that
is rooted in compassion and human dignity.
 Like the mighty and noble African fish
eagle that adorns the national flag of Zambia,
Comrade KK has soared into the sunset.
 He has left a Zambia proud and free.
 He has left an Africa united and strong.
 In taking forward his legacy, let it be that
Dr Kaunda’s teachings on compassion,
empathy and dignity are Africa’s gift to
humankind.
 And that in the words of Steve Bantu Biko, it
is we, the peoples of Africa, who bestow on the
world a more human face.
 Let us go forward, one heart, one spirit,
united.
 Let us go forward, for equality, for justice,
for human prosperity, and for a better Africa
and a better world.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
18
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  19
Even in the worst effects of the pandemic, the one feature that was prominently confirmed
was the vital importance of multilateralism in global collaboration. Faith was restored in
multilateral institutions that had been confronting negativity for several years.
Building back better, to advance the
legacy of Charlotte Maxeke
I
n 2020/21, South Africa chaired the African
Union (AU) and we had plans to advance
our policy agenda of a better Africa and a
better world.
 The key focus for 2020 was the priority
of silencing the guns in Africa and advancing
the economic participation of women. We were
also committed to ensuring implementation
of all the steps necessary to give effect to the
African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)
Agreement and further implementation of the
African Peer Review Mechanism.
 The funding pressures we continue to
experience have caused severe cutbacks in
key areas. Low levels of economic growth and
declining investment in South Africa and Africa
are a severe constraint on our international
ambitions.
 South Africa is fortunate to have dedicated
men and women in the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) who work very hard to ensure
Powerful nations must
accept that we all
depend on each other
and even the most
powerful will not achieve
peace and security
through unilateral actions
and neglect of the
poor, the oppressed
and marginalised. We
call on the UN and the
Gulf Council to be more
resolute in pursuing
freedom for the people
of Palestine.
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
BUILDING BACK BETTER, TO ADVANCE THE LEGACY OF CHARLOTTE MAxEKE
that we do achieve our objectives and who
tolerate significant sacrifices to ensure we
succeed. We have done even more to focus
missions overseas on economic diplomacy as
we must secure more growth and jobs in South
Africa.
 The positive character of DIRCO officials
was shown in the COVID-19 crisis. The
Consular Services Branch ensured the
successful repatriation of thousands of South
Africans stranded overseas. The department’s
efforts benefitted from support of Portfolio
Committee members and from the general
public. I wish to thank all who played a role in
the repatriation efforts.
 With respect to our AU Chairship, President
Cyril Ramaphosa gave sterling leadership
to the Bureau, the AU Commission and
our continent. The AU Chair ensured a
coordinated African response to the pandemic,
developed an Africa strategy and secured the
support of African leaders through an open
and consultative approach. Agreement that
Africa should use its own resources to support
the African Centres of Disease Control as the
scientific adviser on our pandemic response
was a critical factor in Africa addressing the
pandemic’s effects. Furthermore, the decision
of the Chair to create the Africa Medical
Supplies Platform, a web-based platform for
equal access to health equipment, treatment
and diagnostics, was innovative and impactful.
 The role of Chair went beyond the health
response and also focussed on the economic
impact of the COVID-19 virus. The economic
envoys appointed by the AU Chair and the
commission engaged financial institutions and
government leaders to secure debt relief and
debt standstill for indebted African countries
so they can focus on the pandemic and
have liquidity for focussed socio-economic
recovery. We continue to engage multilateral
financial institutions to provide such new
funding and not more debt loans. While
focussing on our COVID-19 response, much
was done to continue our engagements with
the globe, including support to the President’s
annual investment conference. The objective
of securing recovery funding is still being
pursued by President Ramaphosa and other
leaders. The Financing Africa Summit in Paris
in May 2021 focussed on the urgent need for
the International Monetary Fund to finalise
the matter of Special Drawing Rights and the
issue of vaccine production as well as the call
for the World Trade Organisation’s temporary
waiver of Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights.
 Even in the worst effects of the pandemic,
the one feature that was prominently
confirmed was the vital importance of
multilateralism in global collaboration. Faith
was restored in multilateral institutions that
had been confronting negativity for several
years. COVID-19 revived and affirmed global
cooperation. The multilateral and other regional
bodies enjoyed long-denied prominence and
leadership. This reality has assisted our long-
held belief that multilateral institutions matter
and are a more inclusive and equitable global
option for managing global affairs. We have
continued to engage in the United Nations
(UN) and to uphold the rights of the people
of Palestine to statehood, those of Western
Sahara to self-determination and the need for
the UN and the AU to assist Africa to finally
achieve continent-wide peace and focus on
development.
 Our 2019/20 Annual Report and that of
2020/21 show the progress we have made
in meeting our goals and objectives. They
show that while our strength is diminished
by inadequate resources, we continue to
punch above our weight in international
cooperation. We will seek even greater impact
in 2021/22. We will do more to support Ethiopia,
Sudan and Egypt to negotiate an agreement
on the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. We
will also work closely with South Sudan and
Libya to promote and support post-conflict
reconstruction and finally much more will be
done to achieve the gender agenda mandated
by the AU adoption of 2020 – 2030 as the
Decade of the Financial Inclusion of Women in
Africa.
 The impact of COVID-19 resonates
strongly with the legacy we have inherited from
Mama Charlotte Maxeke. She was a woman
who believed that it is possible to build back
better. In the unquenchable spirit of this great
woman of Africa, it is imperative that we focus
this year on building back better.
 The negative impact of COVID-19 has
clear directives for our future agenda. We will
continue to promote the mainstreaming of
gender perspectives in all our contributions in
the UN and AU. Working closely with the AU
Special Envoy on Gender and the Commission
for Peace and Security, we will consult women
leaders in post-conflict areas and work
with them to ensure their full contribution
to reconstruction and development in their
countries.
 We are pleased to be serving in the UN
Peacebuilding Commission for 2021 – 2022
as this will help us contribute towards the
maintenance of international peace and
security just as we did during our term in the
UN Security Council (UNSC). Peace and
security are extremely fragile or absent in
many parts of the globe. The vicious attacks
by Israel on Palestinian people and the forced
removal of Palestinians from their homes are
clear evidence of the absence of peace and
security for millions worldwide. Sadly, we
all watched as Palestine suffered more and
more brutally. Greater effort must be exerted
to achieve peace in the Middle East. Powerful
nations must accept that we all depend on
each other and even the most powerful will
not achieve peace and security through
unilateral actions and neglect of the poor,
the oppressed and marginalised. We call
on the UN and the Gulf Council to be more
resolute in pursuing freedom for the people of
Palestine.
 Charlotte Maxeke was a bold agent of
change. We must be as bold and determined
in seeking concrete practical reform of the
UNSC. I am pleased that early steps toward
text-based negotiations are in motion in the
UN. There is significant resistance to changing
the status quo and we must continue to insist
that change is urgently necessary. We need
a representative and 21st-century relevant
UNSC responsive to today’s challenges.
There were 51 member states in 1945; we
have grown to 193, yet, the most important
mechanism of the UN remains untransformed.
 Building back better also means we
should utilise our global cooperation to
secure Africa’s ability to effectively respond
to complex challenges such as a global
pandemic. We must increase our research
and innovation capacity and be more ready
to rely on our ingenuity, our products and our
institutions in future. Charlotte Maxeke and
all our great heroes and heroines believed

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
20
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  21
BUILDING BACK BETTER, TO ADVANCE THE LEGACY OF CHARLOTTE MAxEKE BUILDING BACK BETTER, TO ADVANCE THE LEGACY OF CHARLOTTE MAxEKE
in our innate abilities; let us use them to free
ourselves from post-colonial dependency.
 Africa lies at the heart of our international
agenda. We firmly believe we should ensure
Pan-African ability to determine our affairs
and shape Africa’s future. We have begun
a process of reviewing our Africa strategy in
an effort to respond to the new realities on
the continent through a new approach and
consistent with Agenda 2063.
 We have comparative advantages
that can support and promote increased
African success. We intend to build strategic
partnerships and political alliances in a far
more rigorous manner. We will strengthen
bilateral relations and cooperation and build
strategic partnerships with clear goals and
objectives. We plan to begin in southern
Africa, and to ensure that Southern African
Development Community (SADC) plans are
reinforced and concretely implemented.
 Mama Maxeke did not limit her world to South
Africa and as with our dialogue series icon,
she was a remarkable internationalist. This
is one of the reasons why we are robustly
strengthening our trade cooperation and
people exchange with Southeast Asia. We are
thrilled that our portfolio committee recognised
the exciting opportunities in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) formation
and supported our entry into the Treaty of
Amity and Cooperation of the ASEAN.
 In August, South Africa will assume Chair
of the SADC Organ on Politics, Peace and
Security. The organ has been deliberating
on the extremist attacks in Mozambique
and ministers of the organ have developed
proposals for support to Mozambique.
 2020 was our second year as a non-
permanent member of the UNSC. The
feedback we received indicates that the role
of South Africa in the Security Council was
deeply appreciated due to South Africa’s
principled position on issues on the council’s
agenda. This relatively independent position,
together with a compelling commitment to
peaceful resolution of disputes and a fair and
balanced approach in engaging with member
states, allowed South Africa to play a bridge-
building role in a divided Security Council.
During our tenure, we continued to advance
UN and AU cooperation on peace and security
matters, especially with reference to Libya,
the Sahel region and the transitional process
in South Sudan. We note with hope the
positive progress in Libya and further actions
on the comprehensive agreement in South
Sudan. DIRCO will remain closely attentive
to support for post-conflict reconstruction in
South Sudan and we are in constant contact
with the Government there. We also welcome
the efforts by various organisations in South
Africa to assist Sudan in the transition and
constitution-making processes.
 President Ramaphosa also worked
closely with G20 countries, with our BRICS
partners and the European Union (EU) to
continue supporting South Africa and Africa in
implementing our international agenda.
 The continued economic impact of
COVID-19 has led us to review South Africa’s
diplomatic footprint globally. In an effort to
reduce costs while ensuring a presence
throughout the world, we are in the process
of closing 10 of our 122 missions during the
course of 2021. The missions in closest
geographic proximity will provide diplomatic
and consular services to countries that no
longer host our missions. We plan to utilise
improved information technology services
to ensure efficient consular support to our
citizens in these countries. We also intend
to appoint honorary consuls to ensure we
continue to have a presence and that we
uphold established relations.
 It is due to the need to support the economic
ambitions of our government that we have
directed increased attention to the promotion of
economic diplomacy through all our missions.
We are also working hard to secure increased
trade opportunities with our major trading
partners. China is one of our most significant
trading partners. Two-way trade with Asia and
the Middle East region grew from R45 billion
in 1990 to a staggering R984 billion in 2020.
COVID-19 caused a contraction of 1,6% in
our trade with Asia and the Middle East but,
importantly, even in this time, trade with China
continued to expand. In 2019, two-way trade
with China stood at R413 billion and grew to
R437 billion in 2020. The agriculture sector
has led this growth. This has resulted in more
jobs, more small and medium sized business
growth, more small commercial farmers and
enhanced trade exchange. Most pleasing is
that trade is beginning to be a surplus gain for
our exporters with an increasing number of
countries in the region.
 Added to this welcome progress are the
improved trade figures for South Africa in
the ASEAN region. In 2020, two-way trade
between South Africa and East Asia amounted
to R119 billion. I have asked our missions in that
region to help identify increased opportunities
in the massive halal market and in citrus and
other commodities. The statistics on current
trade indicate significant growth in the ASEAN
– a fast-growing region with a gross domestic
product of over US$3.1 trillion and a market of
over 650 million people.
 This evidence of progress links well with
our progress in BRICS, especially in the
work of the New Development Bank (NDB).
Charlotte Maxeke was a team player who
sought to benefit all in her circle. She did not
shy away from a challenge as shown by the
support to her choir when stranded in the
United States of America (USA). Similarly, we
have been steadfast advocates of a vibrant
active collaborative BRICS. We are hopeful
of expanded bank membership this year and
fully appreciate the US$2 billion we secured
from the NDB to assist us in our response to
COVID-19. We also secured a billion dollars
for our non-toll road infrastructure programme
in 2020.
 Our trilateral IBSA Forum with India and
Brazil has been a glowing example of a new
blueprint for South-South cooperation. Since
its inception in 2005, the IBSA Fund for poverty
and hunger alleviation supported over 30
development projects in 22 countries of the
global South to the value of US$32 million. In
2020, the fund approved new development
projects in several African countries, including
Senegal, the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Benin, Uganda, Sudan, Mail, Niger and
eSwatini.
 Our focus in international relations includes
our promotion of the values and ethos of our
Constitution through advocating for human
dignity, democracy and equality. We continue to
stand in full solidarity with the people of Palestine
and will work even harder to persuade the AU
and the UN to robustly pursue freedom for the
people of Palestine. The cruel bombings and
killings of the innocent we witnessed recently
are a sad testimony of the cruel impunity the
world has granted to Israel. The international
It is due to the need to
support the economic
ambitions of our
government that we
have directed increased
attention to the
promotion of economic
diplomacy through all
our missions. We are
also working hard to
secure increased trade
opportunities with our
major trading partners.
A better Africa continues to be the key foreign policy
focus of South Africa. Working closely with the
Department of Trade, Industry and Competition, we will
support implementation of the AfCFTA.
community must stop this impunity. South
Africa should support the International Criminal
Court in the planned investigation of the abuse
of human rights by the Israeli Government. We
hope sanctions and other measures to show
the world’s offence at this brutality will soon be
evident.
 The people of Cuba also continue to be
victims of an unwarranted blockade that should
be finally ended by the new US Administration.
We will continue to support Cuba and work
closely with that solid friend of South Africa.
 A better Africa continues to be the key
foreign policy focus of South Africa. Working
closely with the Department of Trade,
Industry and Competition, we will support
implementation of the AfCFTA. We must do
everything possible to ensure successful
implementation of the free trade area. For many
African countries, the AfCFTA means more
productive capacity, economic infrastructure
and new trade opportunities. We must ensure
evidence-based planning as we implement
projects for increased African trade.
 DIRCO has supported countries that held
elections in 2020, providing expertise via the
Independent Electoral Commission or relevant
non-government partners. The support to the
Central African Republic supported an election
that many judged as free and fair. While
pursuing our Africa Agenda vigorously, we
will also build on the excellent trade relations
with the USA, the EU member states and the
United Kingdom. These are also significant
trading partners for South Africa and we plan
to grow the trade, people and cultural links
through our embassies. Several ambassadors
have drawn my attention to the inadequacy of
our cultural diplomacy. I am told Black Coffee
could fill Wembley Stadium and profile South
Africa, but when he performs overseas, there is
an insufficient association to his South African
identity. We have immense talent in a range of
fields and could mount international cultural
events with a diversity of talents worldwide.
This is an area of diplomacy I would like to
focus on more as we begin to free funds from
other areas of activity. I also hope we can work
closely with the Department of Arts and Culture
on this aspect of our work.
 We are working hard to build back better
as Charlotte Maxeke expects us to. We must
provide skills opportunities to young people,
enhance our innovation and digital capabilities
so we rank with the best and ensure we
continue the work to build a South Africa, Africa
and world that will be of service to humanity
and responsive to the most progressive human
development goals.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
22
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  23
SOUTH AFRICA’S PARTNERSHIPS WITH ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST ARE CRUCIAL SOUTH AFRICA’S PARTNERSHIPS WITH ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST ARE CRUCIAL
South Africa’s partnerships with Asia
and the Middle East are crucial
A
sia and the Middle East are
important trading partners for
South Africa. Our two-way
trade stood at R984 billion in
2020.
 One of the major
determinants of the strength of the short-term
economic recovery after COVID-19 will be
the effectiveness of pandemic containment
measures. South Africa intends to strengthen
cooperation with the Asia and Middle East
region in containing further COVID-19
outbreaks. As part of this strategy, we are
aggressively pursuing opportunities towards
the production of vaccines in Africa.
 South Africa, alongside India, has
submitted a proposal to the World Trade
Organisation for a temporary waiver of
certain rules in the Trade-Related Aspects
of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement to
facilitate wider access to technologies needed
to produce vaccines and medicines, especially
to the poorer countries. We are pleased with
the support of the international community
that we have received. A temporary waiver
will allow the use of intellectual property, to
share technology transfer, to produce vaccines
and therapeutics, lower prices and expedite
distribution to everyone, everywhere. Effective
and comprehensive global vaccination is vital
to ending the pandemic.
 The pandemic has had a significant impact
on the global economy generally and on
Africa in particular. Furthermore, Africa has to
deal with the additional challenge of securing
vaccines. Several countries in the Asia and
Middle East region have committed significant
resources to the COVID-19 Vaccines Global
Access (COVAx) facility. This will benefit many
African countries as well as other nations.
South Africa firmly supports the World Health
Organisation in spearheading COVAx to roll
out vaccines to the global South.
South Africa would like to continue working closely with governments in this region to
pursue more trade, investment and business potential. There is substantial scope for
improving current levels of investment, especially in industries that are geared towards
the beneficiation and value-addition of our local commodities and natural resources.
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
South Africa counts itself among progressive members
of the international community advocating for the
settlement of disputes through inclusive dialogue, and
the protection of the rights of vulnerable nations. Given
our history, it is natural that we are in solidarity with the
oppressed.
Sadly, in addition to the ravages of the
COVID-19 pandemic, our brothers and sisters
in a number of countries in the Asia and Middle
East region also had to endure the pain and
suffering of armed conflict and oppression.
 Nothing good can come out of conflict. The
tragedy of the recent bombardment of Palestine
is testament to the cruel effects of war and
conflict. More than 75 000 Palestinians were
displaced, resulting in about 243 casualties,
including 64 Palestinian children and 38
women. Israel also suffered casualties. We
call on all in the Middle East to intensify peace
efforts.
 We commend all the parties that assisted
in the negotiations that led to the current
ceasefire. The Government of South Africa will
continue to campaign for the independence
of Palestine under the two-State solution,
based on the international recognition and
independence of the viable State of Palestine,
based on the 4 June 1967 borders, with
East Jerusalem as its capital, and with both
Palestine and Israel existing peacefully as
independent states. All outstanding status
issues must be resolved through direct
negotiations without preconditions between
the parties, with support from the international
community.
 South Africa counts itself among
progressive members of the international
community advocating for the settlement of
disputes through inclusive dialogue, and the
protection of the rights of vulnerable nations.
Given our history, it is natural that we are in
solidarity with the oppressed.
 Regarding the conflict in Syria, we believe
that only a Syrian-led solution will provide a
lasting outcome. The situation in Yemen has
been of particular concern for South Africa as
it has created the greatest humanitarian crisis
of our times. South Africa reaffirms its call for
a United Nations-mediated and Yemeni-led
negotiation to resolve this conflict.
 On a positive note, South Africa welcomes
the progress being made in efforts to restore
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. We
are pleased at the attempt to find a diplomatic
solution to this issue.
 The world is confronted by economic
recovery challenges after COVID. The
countries in Asia and the Middle East are
important trading partners for South Africa.
Our two-way trade with the region stood at
R984 billion in 2020. Our country’s bilateral
relations with the countries of this important
region are also well established in areas such
as technical cooperation, health and skills
development opportunities for our people, as
is their investment footprint in South Africa.
 South Africa’s accession to the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations Treaty of Amity and
Cooperation in November 2020 is a milestone
and will contribute to closer and more beneficial
economic opportunities.
 We fully support the association’s
constructive role in facilitating a peaceful
solution to the undemocratic developments in
Myanmar.
 South Africa would like to continue working
closely with governments in this region to pursue
more trade, investment and business potential.
There is substantial scope for improving current
levels of investment, especially in industries
that are geared towards the beneficiation and
value-addition of our local commodities and
natural resources. The benefits of using South
Africa as a logistical nodal point from which to
access the vast African market to gain the full
benefit of the African Continental Free Trade
Area Agreement are another opportunity.
 The Middle East will also be crucial to our
reconstruction and development after the
pandemic. In 2020, total trade with the region
amounted to R122 billion, despite the effects of
COVID-19 on trade and investment.
 A key priority for South Africa with the
Middle East is to diversify our trade and this has
been happening gradually, but the dominance
of crude oil and petrochemicals remains. We
are now working on diversifying this trading
dynamic through growth in other sectors.
 This is an  overview of the state of relations
between South Africa and the vast region of
Asia and the Middle East, as well as some of
our future priorities, and the global issues that
confront us and that will have an impact on or
guide our future relations.
South Africa values the partnership with
countries in Asia and the Middle East. We are
particularly happy that these countries agree
with our view that we should preserve the
centrality of multilateralism, speak out against
unilateralism, protectionism and populism, and
continue to call for the respect of international
law and a reformed global order that is more
equitable, inclusive and representative of
current global realities.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
24
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  25
Canola produces small yellow flowers, making a vibrant magical scene. The Canola fields in the Western Cape offer a picturesque landscape
during the months of August to September as the farmlands become a patchwork of bright yellow flowers.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
26
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  27
The Palestinian narrative evokes experiences of South Africa’s own history of racial
segregation and oppression.
Justice for the Palestinian people
T
he world has recently
witnessed some of the most
horrific scenes of brutality and
violence exercised against
Palestinians living in the
Occupied Palestinian Territory.
  We have witnessed the senseless
taking of young, innocent lives, the destruction
of civilian infrastructure and livelihoods in
an “unbalanced power equation between
an occupying power and a people, resisting
occupation”.
 The Palestinian narrative evokes
experiences of South Africa’s own history of
racial segregation and oppression.
 As oppressed South Africans, we
experienced first-hand the effects of racial
inequality and discrimination and we are
well aware of the long-term impact and
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
JUSTICE FOR THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE JUSTICE FOR THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
consequences of racial and other forms of
discrimination.
 An unwavering commitment is required
to eradicate discrimination and policies of
exclusion completely and permanently the
world over. It is paramount that the global
system deepens its efforts to eradicate the
scourge of racism and discrimination and allow
those whose basic rights have been violated,
to enjoy the inherent human rights that others
enjoy on a daily basis.
 The fundamental freedoms that many of us
take for granted remain absent for Palestinians
living in the Occupied Territory. A recent
report, published by the Israeli Information
Centre for Human Rights in the Occupied
Territories, B’Tselem, provides a detailed
account of the military occupation imposed
on the approximately five million Palestinians
living in the Occupied Territory, and the laws
and practices engineered to impede them
from participating in the political system that
governs their lives and determines their future.
 The Human Rights Watch Report, A
Threshold Crossed: Israeli Authorities and the
Crimes of Apartheid and Persecution, published
on 27 April 2021, draws similar conclusions. The
regular land dispossession and illegal seizure of
homes evoke apartheid-forced removals and
intolerable harm to all people.
 These actions undermine the Palestinian
people and deprive them of their universal
and inalienable right to self-determination
and equality. It goes against internationally
adopted human rights instruments, violates
international law, further provoking political
tension and endangering international peace
and security.
Since its inception in 1945, the United Nations
(UN) has championed the principles of equality,
non-discrimination and the right to self-
determination as an integral element of basic
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
 With international human rights instruments
to guide us, such as the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, the Covenants on Civil and
Political Rights and Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, as well as the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples (1960), we ask, why is
it that, over half a century later, the question of
Palestine remains unresolved and why is it that
the people of Palestine are denied many of the
rights contained in these seminal documents?
 We, along with many in the UN membership,
have long accepted and supported a two-state
solution, with Israel and Palestine living side
by side in peace. Decades of aggression have
made this internationally recognised concept
improbable.
 The pivotal role played by the UN and
civil society in supporting our respective
liberation struggles and the impact this had
on us achieving our self-determination must
encourage the UN and its member states, the
international community and civil society to join
efforts to strengthen international action and
coordination to uphold international norms and
standards as we seek justice for Palestinians.
 Most importantly, with regard to the
ongoing human rights violations Palestinians
endure, South Africa urges the international
community, and in particular the UN, to ensure
the safeguarding of the rights of the Palestinian
people. In this regard, we welcome the initiative
to convene a Special Session of the Human
Rights Council (HRC) on the grave human
rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian
Territory, including East Jerusalem, which was
held on 27 May 2021.
 South Africa supports the recent adoption
of the UN HRC Resolution, which establishes
an International Commission of Inquiry
to Investigate Violations in the Occupied
Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem,
and in Israel. However, action in this regard
has to be peremptory to avoid reducing
these initiatives to “feel good talk shops”.
It is therefore our sincerest hope that the
Independent Commission of Inquiry will be
established with all due haste to investigate all
violations and abuses and that the necessary
action will be taken to follow up on the
commission’s findings.
 We are currently living in unprecedented
times. The COVID-19 pandemic has
presented enormous social and economic
challenges, straining existing systems that are
already grappling with numerous difficulties.
The pandemic has further exacerbated the
challenges faced by civilians and vulnerable
groups, especially women, girls, people with
disabilities and children, including those in the
Occupied Territory. Containment measures
have affected access to socio-economic
necessities. Women and girls living under
occupation and in armed conflicts are often
subjected to not only social, economic and
political subjugation but are also at particular
risk of suffering from lifelong psychological
traumas.
 In this regard, it is paramount that the
occupying power fulfil its obligations in terms
of international law and together with the
international community ensure that all barriers
to accessing healthcare are eliminated in order
to save lives.
 We wish to reiterate that illegal settlements
leading to dispossession and displacements
and human rights abuses are incompatible with
international humanitarian law and international
human rights law. The policies and practices
of Israel, as the occupying power, are in
flagrant violation of UN General Assembly and
Security Council resolutions and contravene
international law. It is therefore imperative that
the Security Council, as the body entrusted
to maintain international peace and security,
take concrete steps against these illegal acts
and go beyond mere rhetoric condemnation.
The recorded failures of the Security Council
in ensuring respect for and the upholding of
the rule of law have dented the integrity of this
august organ and highlighted the urgent need
for Security Council reform.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
28
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  29
SOUTH AFRICA COMMITTED TO REMAIN AN INFLUENTIAL ACTOR AND PARTNER ON THE INTERNATIONAL STAGE
We are making use of innovative ways, such as digital diplomacy, to achieve our
objectives within a global environment that continues to come to grip with the impact
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
By Candith Mashego-Dlamini
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
D
uring this financial year, the
Department of International
Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) will focus on the
following objectives, in line
with the Government’s
Medium Term Strategic Framework for 2019
– 2024:
•  increase foreign direct investment into
South Africa and Africa
•  improve South African access to foreign
markets
•  contribute to increased tourism arrivals to
South Africa
• improve investor confidence.
In our five-year strategic plan, we have said
that we are striving towards:
•  a united and politically cohesive continent
that works towards shared prosperity and
sustainable development
•  enhanced regional integration with
increased and balanced trade within
the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) and on the continent
by supporting the creation of the African
Continental Free Trade Area
•  promotion of peace, security and stability
on the continent
•  using South Africa’s membership and
engagements in various international fora
to advance the African Agenda.
We are pursuing these objectives in a global
environment that continues to grapple with
the effects of COVID-19. We are making use
of innovative ways, such as digital diplomacy,
to achieve our objectives within a global
environment that continues to come to grip
with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 The department is working on a strategy,
which focusses on developing, renovating
and refurbishing the state-owned properties
housing our missions abroad.
 In his first speech to the United Nations
as President of a free and democratic South
Africa, delivered in October 1994, President
Nelson Mandela said: “South Africa will help
to create for themselves and all humanity a
common world of peace and prosperity”. This
is a mission we continue to pursue, especially
on our continent.
 In our own neighbourhood, we continue to
focus not only on the situation in Mozambique,
but we also remain seized with the political and
security situation in the Kingdom of Lesotho.
 We cannot overemphasise the importance
of a stable, secure and prosperous Lesotho. It
is in our mutual interest as South Africans and
Basotho that our neighbourhood is safe and
secure.
 President Cyril Ramaphosa, in his capacity
as SADC Facilitator to the Kingdom of Lesotho,
appointed a facilitation team led by retired
Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke,
assisted by three deputy ministers, to support
him in his facilitation in the Kingdom of Lesotho
as per the decision of the SADC Double Troika
Summit, held in Luanda, Angola, in April 2018.
 The 40th Ordinary SADC Summit of Heads
of State and Government, held virtually on
17 August 2020, decided that the role of the
SADC Facilitator, President Ramaphosa,
should continue.
 The summit also recognised the important
role played by the SADC Facilitation Team
to the Kingdom of Lesotho, leading to the
inauguration of the National Reforms Authority
on 6 February 2020, which will manage,
coordinate and lead the national reform process
from 1 October 2020 until 30 September 2021,
with a possible extension until 30 April 2022, if
circumstances require.
 The latest visit by the SADC Facilitation
Team to Maseru took place from 11 to 13
March 2021. The objective of the visit was to
receive a status update on the implementation
of the reform process since the last visit in
November 2020. The current mandate of the
SADC Facilitation Team to the Kingdom of
Lesotho is valid until the next SADC Ordinary
Summit of Heads of State and Government in
August 2021, where the facilitator is required to
report on the status of this process.
 In July 2021, the Republic of South Sudan
marked 10 years of its existence. South
Africa enjoys cordial bilateral relations with
South Sudan and the two countries have a
long-standing historical relationship that pre-
dates South Sudan’s independence from the
Republic of Sudan in July 2011. An agreement
establishing official bilateral relations was
signed in September 2012.
 In 2019, South Africa committed to provide
humanitarian assistance to the Republic of
South Sudan through the African Renaissance
Fund (ARF) in the form of food aid and medical
supplies. These initiatives were intended to
address socio-economic challenges facing
vulnerable communities, including the
refugees and internally displaced persons,
comprising mainly women and children who
were negatively affected by the conflict in South
Sudan. The last intervention we made was to
send a consignment of food items donated by
the South African Government to the people of
South Sudan. This humanitarian aid package
formed part of a series of other interventions
by South Africa towards alleviating the
humanitarian challenges facing the people of
South Sudan.
 At the request of the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development, David Mabuza,
Deputy President of South Africa, in his
capacity as the Presidential Special Envoy
to the Republic of South Sudan, was invited
to facilitate a series of meetings between the
parties to the Revitalised-Agreement on the
Resolution of Conflict in the Republic of South
Sudan (R-ARCSS) to resolve the impasse.
His mediation efforts significantly contributed
towards an amicable political settlement
among the signatories to the R-ARCSS.
 On 22 February 2020, the parties to the
R-ARCSS reached an agreement, which
paved the way for the establishment of the
Revitalised Transitional Government of
National Unity (RTGoNU). On 22 February 2021,
the country marked the first anniversary of the
RTGoNU.
 The Middle East region is very important
economically. Our trade with the Middle East
for 2020 amounted to R122 billion. There has
been export growth in a number of key areas,
particularly in agriculture products such as live
animals, citrus, nuts and vegetables. We are
also exporting precious metals, iron, steel,
aircraft and machinery to a number of countries
in this region.
 South Africa is intensifying its economic
diplomacy efforts, and we are looking at some
of the economies that continue to grow despite
the difficulties associated with COVID-19.
Some of these are found in Asia.
 South Africa’s bilateral trade with India
amounted to R108.7 billion in 2020. There
are more than 130 Indian companies present
in South Africa. Our strategic partnership has
important dimensions beyond the bilateral
facets, and also relates to multilateral
institutions, of which both countries are
members. These institutions include the G20;
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
(BRICS); and India, Brazil and South Africa;
(IBSA).
 DIRCO does important work to provide
assistance to South Africans in distress
abroad. Following the rapid spread of the
COVID-19 pandemic early last year, we set
up the Consular Incident Command Centre to
facilitate assistance to South African citizens
who found themselves stranded abroad due
to unforeseen circumstances and the ongoing
COVID-19 pandemic. The other instance was
during the insurgence attack in Mozambique.
 During the 2020/21 financial year, the
total number of consular cases attended to
were approximately 700. In dealing with South
African citizens in distress abroad, it became
evident that the concept of Consular Services
was misunderstood by the South African
society and many of our citizens are unfamiliar
with the nature of assistance they can expect
when stranded, destitute and distressed
abroad hence the ongoing need to encompass
consular awareness campaigns, especially for
citizens travelling abroad.
 The department has created an application
for South Africans to register themselves during
a major disaster, be it natural or manmade, so
that an accurate database of South African
citizens globally can be maintained. This
database will assist to expedite the process
and time to render consular assistance to our
citizens abroad. The training phase of this
application will commence during the course of
the current financial year.
 These are some of the measures to ensure
that we remain of service to South African
citizens wherever they find themselves in the
world.
 South Africa is committed to remain an
influential actor and partner on the international
stage, while effectively contributing to the
delivery of the country’s domestic priorities and
advancement of the African Agenda.
South Africa committed to remain an
influential actor and partner on the
international stage
SOUTH AFRICA COMMITTED TO REMAIN AN INFLUENTIAL ACTOR AND PARTNER ON THE INTERNATIONAL STAGE

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
30
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  31
South Africa is unequivocal that the deepening of multilateralism is paramount to
world peace.
South Africa’s foreign policy draws on
the spirit of internationalism
By Alvin Botes
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY DRAWS ON THE SPIRIT OF INTERNATIONALISM  SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY DRAWS ON THE SPIRIT OF INTERNATIONALISM
T
he values that inspire and
guide South Africa as a nation
are deeply rooted in decades
of struggle for liberation. As
a beneficiary of many acts of
selfless solidarity in the past,
South Africa believes strongly that what it
wishes for its people should be what it wishes
for the citizens of the world.
 Our foreign policy therefore draws on the
spirit of internationalism and is intertwined with
our pursuit of a better Africa in a better world.
 As we celebrate 27 years of freedom, as
a generation we should always be conscious
that there is a dialectical relationship between
our 27 years of freedom and the 27 years
of imprisonment, which sought to break the
resilient spirit of Nelson Mandela.
 As we celebrate the silver jubilee of South
Africa’s Constitution, we are conscious of
the constitutional values reflected in the Bill
of Rights. Our foreign policy aims should not
conflict with the realisation of these rights.
The right to self-determination, social justice
and freedom are unalienable rights. Political
freedom is at the apex of our envisaged vision
for a just and equitable world, which errs on the
side of the most vulnerable.
 The objective of global solidarity and to
deepen South-South cooperation become
an important attribute in our foreign policy
repository.
 We pause to mark 119 years of the
independence of Cuba from the Spanish
empire and the end of the first United States
(US) military occupation on 20 May 1902.
Cuba remains a historical and strategic
partner and our relations continue to display
a good model of South-South cooperation
and human solidarity. South Africa condemns
the continuation of unilateral sanctions
against Cuba and will continue to support the
annual resolutions in the United Nations (UN)
General Assembly on the “Necessity of Ending
the Economic, Commercial and Financial
Blockade against Cuba”.
We trust that the leadership of President Joe
Biden will be inspired by the US foreign policy
initiative of 2015, when President Barack
Obama authorised a process of back-channel
negotiations and normalised diplomatic
relations with Cuba.
 Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,
the Cuban people and Henry Reeves
International Medical Brigades have been an
inspiration to humanity with their commitment
to support other countries in their battle
against this deadly virus. Even before the
pandemic began, Cuban doctors and health
professionals were already providing medical
support in 59 countries; during the COVID-19
pandemic, Cuba deployed 187 of her most
skilled medical practitioners to assist the
South African people in our fight against
COVID-19.
 The Cubans provide this solidarity and
ask for nothing in return, because they
believe in global solidarity, and possess a
genuine commitment to make our world
a better place for everyone. They are
instinctively multilateralist and progressive
internationalists.
 We must reiterate our unwavering support
for the people of the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela. We call on the US to reconsider
its stance on Venezuela regarding the report
of the UN Special Rapporteur on Sanctions
and Human Rights, Alena Douhan. She
published her initial recommendations in
February 2021, which called for the lifting of
US unilateral coercive measures.
 Within the Western hemisphere, the
Americas and Caribbean span a vast
geographical area that includes developed,
developing and least developed economies
as well as regional and global powers. Stark
contrasts exist among these countries,
among others, in terms of territorial size,
populations, economies, technologies and
military power. The diversity within this
hemisphere necessitates a nuanced foreign
policy approach and offers a wide range of
Throughout the
COVID-19 pandemic,
the Cuban people
and Henry Reeves
International Medical
Brigades have been an
inspiration to humanity
with their commitment to
support other countries
in their battle against this
deadly virus.
As a beneficiary of many
acts of selfless solidarity
in the past, South Africa
believes strongly that
what it wishes for its
people should be what
it wishes for the citizens
of the world.
opportunities for engagement that span the
whole spectrum of South Africa’s foreign
policy priorities.
 The US is a strategic partner for South
Africa and a major export market for value-
added products as well as a significant source
of foreign direct investment (FDI), technology
transfer, development assistance and tourism.
The bilateral relationship continues to grow,
and we must regain the momentum that was
lost because of the COVID-19 pandemic and
policy shifts under the Trump Administration.
 South Africa believes that agreements
reached through multilateral forums must be
implemented in good faith. We are pleased,
therefore, to note that the new administration in
the US, under President Biden, has taken steps
to return to the multilateral fold by rejoining the
Paris Climate Accord and the World Health
Organisation, and her leadership on negating
the matter of vaccine nationalism. South Africa
and the US have extensive relations that cover
a wide spectrum of issues, which are aligned
to South Africa’s domestic priorities, including
in such areas as health (the President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief [PEPFAR]),
education, science and technology, water and
the environment. The PEPFAR allocation for
2021 to 2024 by the US has been cut by 11%,
but still amounts to US$465 945 195.00. The
African Growth and Opportunity Act agreement
continues to facilitate trade between South
Africa and the US and amounts to R173 billion.
Our citrus exports increased by 30% in 2020
due to the international need for Vitamin C
nutrients, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
South Africa will be using the opportunity
to reset the bilateral relationship with the
US. South Africa is unequivocal that the
deepening of multilateralism is paramount to
world peace.
 In addition, contact with the African
Diaspora in the region would serve to
enhance relations between South Africa and
the African continent, especially with respect
to the Caribbean countries. The African
Diaspora in the Americas, particularly in the
Caribbean, continues to have significance
for South Africa considering their support for
Africa’s liberation and a shared vision of an
equitable world.
 Canada remains a vital ally in helping
address our national priorities, including
support for our efforts to build a capable
state. South Africa and Canada have a
shared commitment to multilateralism, gender
empowerment and building social cohesion.
We are also seeing continued strong
investments by Canada in the mining sector
and will be strengthening this cooperation
further in the areas of mineral beneficiation,
value addition and support for junior miners.
 Similar to South Africa, the COVID-19
pandemic continues to have a devastating
impact in Latin America and the Caribbean
with significant regional economic decline that
has resulted in rising unemployment, poverty,
inequalities and a significant loss of lives.
 South Africa will build on the existing solid
relations with the region to facilitate mutually
beneficial cooperation in several areas
such as agribusiness, biotechnology, the
blue economy, education and skills, energy
(especially biofuels and renewable energy),
mining, health, pharmaceuticals, science and
technology, water and waste management,
human rights, South-South partnerships
and multilateral cooperation to advance the
development agenda of the South.
 The countries of Western Europe are
well-placed to support South Africa’s post-
COVID-19 economic recovery. This applies
both to our bilateral relationship with these
countries, as well as to the South Africa-
European Union (EU) Strategic Partnership,
which continues to serve as the main platform
of engagement between South Africa and
the EU and its member states. This region
includes some of our major trading partners,
sources of FDI and tourism and providers of
development assistance.
 In the year ahead, we will focus more on
developing relations in those areas that will
assist us to address our domestic challenges.
These include the promotion of investment,
skills development, promoting exports,
protecting our market share and promoting
our country as a preferred tourist destination.
 We will be working with the countries of
Western Europe to support President Cyril
Ramaphosa’s target to attract US$100 billion
in investment. Total investment from Europe
is estimated at around R1.4 trillion, which
represents approximately 77% of total FDI in the
country. It has made a significant contribution
towards job creation and industrialisation in
South Africa.
 The apex event in terms of our relations
with Western Europe will be South Africa’s
hosting of the Eighth South Africa-EU Summit,
which will revitalise the Strategic Partnership
between South Africa and the EU. The
strength of this partnership is based on shared
values and interests, including effective
multilateralism, the promotion of peace and
security, human rights, democracy, the rule
of law, free and fair trade and sustainable
development across both regions.
 We trust that in the new South Africa-EU
Multi-annual Indicative Programme for the
period 2021 to 2028, which will be under
the EU’s newly created Neighbourhood
Development and International Cooperation
Instrument, the EU’s development support
for South Africa’s national programmes
will continue. For us, the critical aspects to
be considered by the EU and its member
states in terms of development cooperation
are the targets as expressed in our National
Development Plan, and our recently adopted
Economic Reconstruction and Recovery
Plan.
 South Africa’s trade relationship with the
United Kingdom (UK) continues unchanged
after the UK left the EU and the country remains
one of South Africa’s key trading partners. The
strong and historic relationship that we have
with this region will be an important advantage
as we look towards rebuilding our economy
and pursuing our domestic, regional and
international priorities.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
32
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  33
Advancing the African Agenda and
seeking a better world
By Alvin Botes
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
S
outh Africa continues to
execute its foreign policy
through the canon of
Pan-Africanism, South-
South solidarity, South-
North cooperation and
multilateralism. We do so, knowing that our
national interest is intertwined, interrelated and
integrally infused with the stability, unity and
prosperity of Africa.
 The United Nations (UN) Secretary-
General, António Guterres, in his speech to
the UN General Assembly in 2018, warned
that “our world is suffering from a trust deficit
disorder, and that trust in global governance is
fragile”.
Trust must be earned
The former Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Dr Aziz Pahad,
was instructive on the occasion of accepting
his honorary doctorate degree from the
We require a singular African identity, premised on the African Renaissance, Africa
unity and African solidarity.
University of Pretoria in April 2021, when he
wrote: “We would do well to remember at times
like these that we remain bound together as
never before as communities of fate, brought
together by our mutual vulnerabilities and an
abiding sense of solidarity, compassion and
interdependence”.
 By building back better, we are restoring the
trust deficit.
 Franz Fanon cautioned in his seminal work,
entitled: Black Skin, White Masks, that without
conceptualisation and a new way of life, the
struggle would rely on the memories of past
battles and old formulas and fell back into an
unhappy unconsciousness – what is called
“Afro-pessimism and Afro-optimism on the
other hand”.
 We can no longer speak like our forebears
of the Monrovia State, Brazzaville Groups,
Casablanca Powers, Anglophone and
Francophone. Let us put an end to these
terms.
The AU noted with appreciation the
progress report President Cyril Ramaphosa
presented as Chair of the Heads of State
and Government Orientation Committee’s
High-level Sub-Committee on the PICI.
The AU Development Agency-NEPAD
must collaborate with the African
Development Bank in order to support the
Africa Co-guarantee Platform.
•  We strengthened cooperation between the
AU and the UN. South Africa has recently
concluded its two-year term as an elected
member of the UN Security Council (SC),
and occupied a particular proximity with
other members of the A3, and other elect-
ed members in the E10 formation, with an
emphasis on states from the Non-Aligned
Movement.
•  We promoted peace and security and
advanced efforts to Silence the Guns on
the African continent. The AU Master Lu-
saka Roadmap of “Silencing of the Guns
in Africa”, thereby advancing Aspiration
4 of Agenda 2063, acknowledges the di-
alectical relationship between peace and
development. Patrice Lumumba reminded
us that African unity and solidarity were no
longer dreams. They must be expressed
in decisions. The AU Assembly congratu-
lated the decision of South Africa, together
with Nigeria, Ghana and Senegal, for their
pledges to financially support the Peace
Fund.
Systematic work is being done in South Sudan
(unity government); Sudan (peace agreement);
Libya (ceasefire agreement); and Burundi (the
UNSC removed the matter from its agenda).
Unfortunately, there remain significant risks
of instability and conflict on the continent.
These include developments in Cabo Delgado
(Mozambique), North Kivu (Democratic
Republic of Congo), Tigray (Ethiopia) Sahel
and the Great Lakes; resurgence of hostilities
between Morocco and the people of Western
Sahara; and potential tensions arising from the
Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam.
 We deepened democracy. The last few
years has seen an increase in participatory
politics across the continent with rising numbers
of democratic governments emerging. Over
the last year alone, over 20 African countries
held elections (Guinea, Mali, Benin, Burundi
and Malawi, among others) and 25 more are
destined for a renewal mandate (South Africa,
Zambia, Uganda, South Sudan, São Tomé and
Príncipe, among others) at either presidential,
parliamentary or local level in 2021.
 We supported advancing gender equality,
the empowerment of women and the
combatting of violence against women and
girls. South Africa has been chosen as the
co-leader of the Economic Justice and Rights
Action Coalition of the Generation Equality
Forum. This means that South Africa will
remain part of the global leaders aimed at
accelerating gender equality and the financial
inclusion of African women.
Deepening multilateralism
South Africa continues to participate in many
different plurilateral platforms such as the
G7, G20 and Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa (BRICS), and we must be seized
with the plight of the highly indebted states,
and particular the least developed countries,
of which 33 are African states, including
our immediate neighbours, Lesotho and
Mozambique.
 India’s Chairship of BRICS coincides with
them being subjected to the worst of the
COVID-19 pandemic and we should as a
caring nation err on the side of the vulnerable
and mobilise humanitarian assistance to our
BRICS ally.
 There is high-level support from China and
Russia for the operationalisation of the BRICS
Vaccine Research and Development Centre,
as approved by the Johannesburg Declaration
of the 10th BRICS Summit in 2018.
Solidarity
South Africa must remain steadfast against
the unilateral economic sanctions against
Zimbabwe by the United States and United
Kingdom administrations. This economic
blockade has severely strain the Zimbabwean
economy, especially after Tropical Cyclone Idai,
which destroyed their economic infrastructure.
South Africa, through the African Renaissance
and International Cooperation Fund, pledged
R50 million in humanitarian support to
Zimbabwe and the Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor,
on Africa Day, solidified our intent with
substantive food security interventions. That
is humanitarian diplomacy par excellence and
translating our value system of Ubuntu.
 South Africa must remain unwavering
on the question of the self-determination of
Western Sahara. Morocco has suspended
all contacts with the German Embassy in
Rabat and related German organisations due
to “deep misunderstandings” over Western
Sahara. We must hail Germany’s absolutely
correct posture, which underpins the right to
self-determination of the Sahrawi people.
 On Cuba, we must continue to solidify our
economic diplomacy, through the Economic
Assistance Package Agreement with Cuba,
and indicate our unequivocal support for the
annual UN General Assembly Resolution,
entitled: “Necessity of Ending the Economic,
Commercial and Financial Embargo imposed
by the United States of America against Cuba”.
 South Africa’s freedom is incomplete
without the freedom of the Palestine people.
The UN Human Rights Council has agreed
to launch an open-ended international
investigation into violations during the 11-day
conflict between Israel and Palestinian groups
in Gaza, and into “systematic” abuses in the
occupied Palestinian territories and inside
Israel. We must heighten our advocacy work
for the realisation of the Middle East Peace
Process, without pre-conditions.
 The African heads of states at the 34th
Ordinary Session said the following about
President Ramaphosa’s leadership:
 “The AU Assembly expresses deep
appreciation to His Excellency President
Ramaphosa for providing exemplary, timely,
focused and effective leadership to Africa’s
response to COVID-19;
 “Acknowledges the commendable and
extraordinary efforts he invested during his
chairmanship of the AU in the year 2020;
 “Expresses and reiterates its profound
gratitude to His Excellency President
Ramaphosa, for his vibrant, visionary and
sterling leadership of the Union during his term
of office.”
 President Ramaphosa has reset the trust
button; he has earned his stripes. Ma’m
Charlotte Maxeke would have been proud
and confident about the inclusive Africa we
envisage in Agenda 2063.
We require a singular African identity, premised
on the African Renaissance, Africa unity and
African solidarity.
 South Africa assumed the Chairship of the
African Union (AU) in 2020. The priorities it set
when assuming the Chair included:
•  We supported continental integration,
economic development, trade and
investment on the continent. We are
pleased that the African Continental
Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) came into
operationalisation and commenced
trading on 1 January 2021. The AfCFTA
has a dialectical rooting from the Lagos
Plan of Action and the Abuja Treaty, and
is a potent decolonial instrument we must
use to negate our national grievance of
unemployment, poverty and inequality.
•  We steered the implementation of the
Presidential Infrastructure Champion
Initiative (PICI) in support of the AfCFTA.
ADVANCING THE AFRICAN AGENDA AND SEEKING A BETTER WORLD

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
34
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  35
SOUTH AFRICA AND NIGERIA: CONTINENTAL GIANTSSOUTH AFRICA AND NIGERIA — THE CONTINENTAL GIANTS WITH A SOMETIMES UNEASY, BUT ALWAYS SYMBIOTIC RELA-
By Dr Bobby J Moroe
Deputy High Commissioner of South Africa to the Federal Republic of Nigeria
A
frica’s two continental
giants, South Africa and
Nigeria, maintain a complex
relationship that is often
misunderstood, leading
some in the public discourse
to conclude that the relationship is messy,
truculent and laced with enmity.
 Much has been written about the perceived
or imagined rivalry, competition and the quest
for the hegemony of the continent by South
Africa and Nigeria, and much less about their
successes, cordiality and milestones over the
years. Even fewer works that are available
focus on the socio-economic contrasts
between Nigeria and South Africa in a way that
seeks to project and promote competition.
 Formal diplomatic relations between South
Africa and Nigeria resumed at the dawn of
“The success of political and economic integration in Africa rests heavily on the
shoulders of these two regional powers that have both collaborated and competed
with each other in a complex relationship that is Africa’s most indispensable.”
South Africa’s new democracy in 1994. The two
countries have always enjoyed cordial fraternal
relations dating back to the early days of South
Africa’s struggle for freedom and liberation – a
dark period during which Nigeria stood by South
Africa.
 Buoyed by their strong historical ties, the two
countries established the South Africa-Nigeria
Bi-national Commission (BNC) in 1999. Initially,
the BNC was conceived at the level of vice-
president/deputy president as a mechanism
to manage their diplomatic relations. It was
not until 2016 that the two countries elevated
the status of this mechanism to head of state.
Since then, the mechanism has operated at
the highest level between any two nations who
enjoy diplomatic relations, and this on its own
signifies the strong bonds and ties that exist
between the two countries and their people
There is no shadow of a doubt that the relations
between South Africa and Nigeria are among
the most significant on the continent due to their
enormous economies, abundant influence and
conspicuous stature. In his book, The Eagle
and The Springbok, Professor Adebayo Adideji
validates the notion of two powerful states by
asserting that: “The success of political and
economic integration in Africa rests heavily on
the shoulders of these two regional powers
that have both collaborated and competed with
each other in a complex relationship that is
Africa’s most indispensable.”
 To this day, this narrative remains strong
and has disappointingly bred a narrow-minded
and myopic picture about the two countries
and how they view each other. It does not take
a rocket scientist to understand that any two
nations, or more, pursuing relations of any
form with each other, will always be confronted
with challenges. These relations will be
impoverished if they are understood within
the context of the narrow confines of their
divergences, and not in their shared common
history, aspirations and global influence. It
is important to change the existing narrative
and focus on what enjoins the two countries
towards a common destiny, rather than what
can potentially destroy the very fibre of their
relations.
 There is, therefore, an urgent need in
the public discourse to overcome a lack of
substantive theoretical framework in defining
the relations between South Africa and Nigeria
and contextualise them within the framework
of what they seek to achieve. By doing so,
understanding relations within this framework
will close the existing gap in the inadequacy
of research conducted on how greater social
and economic value can be achieved from
harnessing South Africa-Nigeria solidarity for
concrete, stronger and revived economic and
social cooperation.
 The National Development Plan (NDP)
Vision 2030, in Chapter 7, asserts that: “The
shift of global power towards developing
countries provides South Africa with an
opportunity to maximise its regional and
international influence over the next 20 to 30
years”. Among the other strategic key intents of
the two countries are their collective desire to
drive and lead the advancement of the African
Union’s (AU) Agenda 2063. Advancing this
agenda is critical for continental development
— and the two countries are key in this
process.
 South Africa’s international relations are
guided by the promotion of the well-being
and upliftment of its people, protecting the
planet for future generations and ensuring
the prosperity of the country, the region and
Africa. In order to achieve these objectives,
a critical and pragmatic evaluation of existing
international relations and untangling the
“spaghetti”  bowl of overlapping regional
affiliations and commitments are necessary
(NDP 2011: 217). It is in this context, and in
pursuit of national interests, that South Africa’s
approach to engaging with Nigeria must be
understood.
 While Africa’s growth increases the size of
the continent’s economy, this growth provides
the continent with a greater voice in global and
economic institutions. To this end, Nigeria, the
most populous country in Africa, remains a key
strategic country for South Africa due to its big
economy, population, power and influence
on the continent. As such, this presents
an opportunity for South Africa to leverage
available opportunities in Nigeria.
Nigeria and South Africa account for about
a third of Africa’s economic might, with each
accounting for 60% to 70% of the economies
in their subregions (southern Africa and
West Africa respectively). Both countries are
former British colonies and are members of
the Commonwealth of Nations and the AU.
According to a 2013 BBC World Service poll,
63% of Nigerians view South Africa’s influence
positively, with 24% expressing a negative
view. Nevertheless, it remains strategic for
South Africa to maintain a strong presence
in Nigeria due to its fast-growing economy,
highest gross national product on the continent
and third-largest manufacturing sector. Nigeria
also boasts the largest agricultural output and
the highest number of cattle, but requires
partnership in agricultural research expertise,
which South Africa can provide through
bilateral engagements.
 According to US News and World Report’s
2019 power ranking, Egypt, South Africa's and
Nigeria are the three most powerful countries
in Africa. Since South Africa's and Nigeria’s
transitions to democracy in different times of
history, they have been economic allies and
are also seen as competitors. The top South
African investors in Nigeria are the MTN Group,
Remgro, Shoprite, Pick n Pay Holdings, Black
Rhino, Pep, Standard Bank Group, Clover
Industries and Naspers. A total of R2.67 billion
from six Nigerian companies was invested in
South Africa between 2008 and 2020. Dangote
and GZI are the most significant, accounting
for 95% of the total foreign direct investment
from Nigeria into South Africa.
 Despite their steady economic growth
trajectory, which may be well below their
potential, South Africa and Nigeria remain
pivotal states in the continental firmament.
According to Brand South Africa, the total
African gross domestic product/economic
output in 2017/18 was US$2 175 billion. Of
this, South Africa’s output was U$295 billion
and Nigeria’s US$405 billion.
Nigeria is a member of several international,
regional and subregional organisations,
which include the United Nations (UN) and
several of its special and related agencies: the
World Trade Organisation, the Non-Aligned
Movement, AU, the Commonwealth of Nations,
Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
and the International Maritime Organisation. In
West Africa, Nigeria holds a powerful position
in the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS), as a member and host
country. ECOWAS seeks to harmonise trade
and investment practices for its West African
member countries and ultimately to achieve a
full customs union. The West African country
has also consistently committed itself to the
cause of peacekeeping in the region.
 On the other hand, South Africa is a
member of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) and remains one of
the most influential member states in the
regional body. Since the resumption of its
membership in August 1994, South Africa has
taken a leading role in the region to address
issues, including development and economic
integration. Projections of global power
capabilities among SADC countries using the
International Futures forecasting tool show that
by 2040, Angola will be the only country that
approaches South Africa, but that the latter will
still wield more power potential. The only other
country in SADC that will come close to these
two heavyweights is Tanzania, largely because
of its rapid population growth.
 With the two countries wielding so much
power and influence in the region, and
globally, their relations become significantly
important, particularly for purposes of driving
industrialisation on the continent. It is therefore
critical that their relations are not only viewed
within the context of competition, but rather,
collaboration that seeks to benefit the entire
continent.
South Africa and Nigeria:
the continental giants with a sometimes uneasy,
but always symbiotic relationship

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
36
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  37
The Cederberg Wilderness Area in the Western Cape is one of the most undisturbed parts of South Africa. It has a range of hiking trails that vary in
intensity, including routes to fascinating rock formations such as Wolfberg Arch.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
38 39
LIBERATION HERITAGE: RAY ALExANDER-SIMONS
R
ay Alexander-Simons,
née Alexandrowich, was
born on 12 January 1914
in Latvia. While at school,
she displayed little fear in
challenging authorities. Her
independent thinking suggested she pursue
a career in medicine but she soon took up
politics. When she was about 13, she became
active in the underground Latvian Communist
Party.
 She arrived in South Africa on 6 November
1929, and began to organise black worker
unions. Five days later, on 11 November 1929,
after meeting Cissie Gool and lifelong friend
John Gomas, she joined the Communist Party
of South Africa (CPSA), aged 16.
 In the same year, she lost her first job
when she took part in an anti-pass campaign.
She was involved with all facets of the party’s
work, and after being dismissed from a job
for attending the founding conference of the
Anti-Fascist League, she became increasingly
involved in trade union activity.
 Alexander-Simons was the Secretary of
the Communist Party in 1934 and 1935, and
recruited many women into the organisation.
She helped organise workers in many
different trades, but the union which became
synonymous with her name was the Food and
Canning Workers Union (FCWU). Founded
in 1941, the FCWU spread through the fruit
canning industry of the Boland and up the west
coast among fishing communities.
 The FCWU recruited black and white
workers, men and women, and earned the
reputation of being both effective and militant.
In the 1950s, it played a leading role in the
South African Congress of Trade Unions
(SACTU). She also wrote a regular column
on trade union matters in The Guardian, a
newspaper affiliated to the CPSA.
 In September 1953, she was served with
banning orders. It was issued by Justice
Minister Charles Robberts (Blackie) Swart,
which forced her to resign as general secretary
of the FCWU.
 In April 1954, together with Helen Joseph,
Lilian Ngoyi and Florence Mkhize, she helped
found the Federation of South African Women
(FEDSAW), which fought for women’s rights
and participated in drafting the pioneering
Women’s Charter.
Her FCWU banning precluded her attending the
1956 Women’s March to the Union Buildings,
but she was involved in its organisation and
recruited about 175 women from Cape Town.
After another banning order in April 1954, she
was forced to resign from FEDSAW.
 Alexander-Simons married Eli Weinberg in
1937, but they separated and she later married
Professor Jack Simons, a devoted communist
and a lecturer in African Studies, in 1941.
 On 6 May 1965, Alexander-Simons and
her husband left South Africa for Zambia.
From Zambia, they went to England, where
he obtained a lecturing post at Manchester
University. Together, they wrote the classic
labour history, Class and Colour in South
Africa: 1850 – 1950, a pioneering analysis of
the relationship between class and race, and
how these shaped the South African political
and social landscape.
 They returned to Lusaka in 1967, and were
the first white people to be accepted into the
African National Congress (ANC). During this
time, her husband lectured in the bush camps
in Angola and Alexander-Simons continued to
do underground work.
 In 1990, she attended the Malibongwe
Conference in the Netherlands, which was a
follow-up to the 1984 women’s conference.
Alexander-Simons and her husband returned
to South Africa in 1990.
LIBERATION HERITAGE: RAY ALExANDER-SIMONS
After her return, Alexander-Simons advised
various trade unions, as well as the ANC
and SACP, and worked on a book on her
involvement in the FCWU. Her husband
passed away in 1995.
 Ray Alexander-Simons remained honoured
for her contributions to organisations such
as the CPSA, ANC, FEDSAW, unions, South
West Africa People’s Organisation and the
New Women’s Movement. In 2004, the ANC’s
National Executive Committee bestowed the
ANC’s highest honour of Isithwalandwe on this
liberation movement stalwart.
 She was the third woman to receive this
award, and some of the previous 18 recipients
were Chief Albert Luthuli, Father Trevor
Huddleston and Yusuf Dadoo in 1955, Lilian
Ngoyi in 1982, and Nelson Mandela and
Helen Joseph in 1992. Literally translated,
Isithwalandwe means “the one who wears the
plumes of the rare bird”.
 Ray Alexander-Simons died on
12 September 2004 at the age of 91.
 On 7 November 2016, the South African
Parliament honoured the late labour unionist
and civil rights activist for her heroic role in
championing the rights of farm workers and
women in South Africa.
Her family joined members of Parliament,
academics and civil-society organisations in
a symposium under the theme: “Progress and
Challenges for Working Women: From the
1956 March to Now”, as part of Parliament’s
Memory Project aimed at celebrating the lives
and contributions of women veterans of the
struggle for South Africa’s liberation.
 Alexander-Simons was described as “a
pioneer unionist” and “a practical and very
patient mentor” by her friend and fellow trade
unionist, Leon Levy, who delivered the keynote
address during the symposium.
 Alexander-Simons’ daughter, Tanya
Barben, said: “It is appropriate that the function
takes place on the 7th of November for it is
the date on which teenager Rachel Esther
Alexandrowich (Ray Alexander) arrived in
Cape Town from Latvia and it is also the
anniversary of the October Revolution [which
took place in Petrograd, Russia, from 7 to
8 November, 1917]. She was undaunted when
facing the bosses, the bargaining councils or
the police forces. She sacrificed a lot, including
her own family to fight for a democratic South
Africa,” she said.

www.sahistory.org.za / www.parliament.gov.za
Together, they wrote the classic labour history, Class and Colour in South Africa:
1850 – 1950, a pioneering analysis of the relationship between class and race, and
how these shaped the South African political and social landscape.
"She was undaunted when facing the bosses,
the bargaining councils or the police forces. She
sacrificed a lot, including her own family to fight for a
democratic South Africa."
ALEXANDER-SIMONS
LIBERATION HERITAGE:
Ray

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
40 41
REMEMBERING  THE LEGACY OF THE YOUNG LIONS OF 1976: THE POWER OF YOUTH AS AGENTS OF SOCIAL CHANGE
REMEMBERING THE LEGACY OF THE
THE POWER OF YOUTH AS AGENTS OF
SOCIAL CHANGE
By Ambassador Rapulane Molekane
Permanent Representative of South Africa to the United Nations and other International Organisations in Vienna, Austria
As we pay tribute to the 1976 Young Lions, I firmly believe the youth can truly honour
their legacies by becoming agents for change; the change they wish to see.
T
he month of June is dedicated
to the youth of South Africa.
Our former President Nelson
Mandela paid tribute to the
heroism of youth by stating:
“The youth of today are the
leaders of tomorrow”. As a former youth
activist, I have a deep appreciation for the
strong convictions and boundless energy
young people have for causes close to their
heart. I firmly believe they have an integral role
to play in the upliftment and development of
our country and people, as demonstrated so
many times in the past.
 16 June 1976 has been seared into the
collective consciousness of all South Africans.
It is a stark reminder of the brutality of the
apartheid regime opening fire on unarmed
schoolchildren protesting against the use
of Afrikaans as a medium of instruction at
schools. The protest, which drew thousands of
young people, ended in tragedy with hundreds
dead and many more injured. The senseless
killing of innocent schoolchildren struck a
poignant cord in the heart of the international
community and signalled a turning point in our
history, leading to the downfall of the apartheid
government. South Africa’s youth had risen and
issued a direct challenge to the Government of
the day. They would fight for the country and
the future they wanted.
REMEMBERING  THE LEGACY OF THE YOUNG LIONS OF 1976: THE POWER OF YOUTH AS AGENTS OF SOCIAL CHANGE
Eighteen years after the Soweto Uprising, the
apartheid regime was dismantled and a new
democratic government elected. South Africa’s
transition cannot be fully appreciated without
acknowledging the pivotal role played by its
youth in the struggle. As we commemorate the
sacrifice of these courageous young people, it
provides a timely opportunity to reflect on the
contribution of the youth to the upliftment of
society and the role they can play as agents of
social change.
Youth as agents of change
South Africa has given birth to several youth
icons who have not only transformed their
immediate societies but also the global
community with revolutionary ideas in many
fields such as politics, culture, literature,
science and technology. Charlotte Mannya
Maxeke was the first black South African
woman graduate, a teacher, religious leader
and political activist. Her extraordinary life was
spent in service to her people and community
under very challenging circumstances at the
turn of the century. We recall a young Nelson
Mandela calling for human dignity amid gross
racial prejudice; the brave 11-year-old AIDS
activist, Nkosi Johnson, campaigning against
discrimination faced by those living with HIV;
and Miriam Makeba with the heavenly voice of
angels and lyrics of freedom songs. What they
all had in common was the power to inspire
and bring about the change they desired.
 More recently, we witnessed South African
youth successfully take up issues impacting on
their lives and livelihoods such as the high cost
of data and tertiary education through the “Data
Must Fall” and “Fees Must Fall” campaigns.
On the African front, we have witnessed the
Arab Springs Uprising in Tunisia and Egypt
followed by the powerful Blacks Lives Matter
Campaign, which have ignited long-overdue
discussions on accountability, transformation,
social inclusion, police brutality and racial
discrimination globally. The novelty of these
movements lies in the fact that they were
largely coordinated by the youth and conducted
through technological platforms in real time.
The youth have reclaimed their agency and
advocacy through powerful campaigns, which
have reawakened political consciousness and
redefined social awareness.
South Africa’s future lies in the hands of its
youth
South Africa is blessed to be a youthful nation.
However, the recent unemployment statistics
pertaining to young people are cause for
concern. The 2020 Fourth Quarter Labour
Force Survey found that about 8,6 million
young people aged between 15 and 34 years
were not in education and not in employment.
In helping to draw more young people into
the economy, government has under the
Presidential Youth Employment Intervention
initiated various youth development and
empowerment initiatives to support young
people. It ranges from formal education and
training, learnerships and internships as well
as support for youth entrepreneurship. Our
initiatives provide the necessary support for
young people to take on their challenges and
win.
 The Presidential Youth Employment
Intervention, implemented under the auspices
of the Basic Education sector, has created
employment opportunities for more than
320 000 education and general education
assistants, who were placed in schools
around the country. Other initiatives include
the Expanded Public Works Programme,
Community Works Programme and the
Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator.
The National Youth Service also provides a
platform for young people to become activists
and leaders in their communities.  During
June 2021, government and its agencies
such as the National Youth Development
Agency hosted a number of engagements,
including youth expos, dialogues and youth
entrepreneur hubs to showcase opportunities
available to young people.
Keeping pace with a changing world
The world is evolving at a rapid pace, ushering
in great technological and social change,
which offers opportunities and challenges
alike. Globalisation and the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (4IR) have enabled countries to
leapfrog development and improve the living
standards of their people in a shorter span
of time. Dividends of 4IR such as digitisation,
automation, biotechnology, genomics, robotics,
Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and
cloud computing have redefined the workspace
and reconceptualised how we engage with
the world. Innovation and creativity are now
considered key skills for leveraging the 4IR.
According to the World Economic Forum, the
future workforce will need to align its skillset to
keep pace.
As daunting as this may appear, it has
given rise to career options, which were
unimaginable a decade ago. In line with their
global counterparts, South African youth have
embraced the technological frontier through the
explosion of tech hubs across the country. As
the cost of data drops and broadband speeds
up, we can look forward to more young South
Africans using social media and smartphone
applications to display their innovative ideas
tailored to the local market. Some of the
more famous apps created by South Africans
include Gradematch, which assists learners to
apply for tertiary education and Khwela, which
provides commuter information on where to
catch taxis on their route, saving time and
money, among others.
 As the workspace migrates from physical
to digital, this new landscape offers a wide
range of opportunities to those willing to extend
themselves. South Africa is filled with a deep
pool of talent of creative young people, who
will no doubt be instrumental in rebuilding
sectors devastated by the COVID-19
pandemic. The youth have a pivotal role to
play in post-COVID recovery efforts through
digital innovation to promote socio-economic
transformation, equality, inclusiveness, quality
healthcare, climate resilience and sustainable
industrialisation. They are best placed to
understand the current and future needs of our
societies to shape new solutions in the post-
COVID world.
The importance of education
The South African Government recognises
and values the importance of quality education
in transforming the lives of people and building
a better future for them and their communities.
Mandela said: “Education is the great engine of
personal development. It is through education
that the daughter of a peasant can become a
doctor, that the son of a miner can become the
head of a mine and the child of farm workers
can become the president of a great nation. It
is what we make of what we have and not what
we are given, that separates one person from
another.”
Commemorating Youth Day in Vienna
In commemoration of Youth Day, the South
African Embassy in Vienna, in collaboration
with the Southern African Documentation and
Cooperation Centre, hosted a virtual panel
discussion on “The Challenges Faced by Young
South Africans Pre-and Post-Democracy: A
Reflection” on 16 June 2021, where I had the
opportunity to share my personal recollection
as a youth activist in South Africa. We invited
two young South Africans, Mthobisi Shandu
and Rustum Manuel, based in Vienna, to reflect
on the challenges facing the current generation
of youth. Both highlighted the positive attributes
that democracy have yielded in the country
such as the Constitution, freedom of speech
and movement and opportunities to access
educational institutions and jobs previously
reserved for the white population. However,
they also noted disparities among the races,
mainly attributed to unaddressed historical and
systemic factors such as the level of education,
skills, resources and opportunities, which have
further entrenched inequality and perpetuated
unemployment within the country.
 The panel discussion drew awareness to
the historical significance of Youth Day and
provided a platform for dialogue on challenges
facing the South African youth. As we pay
tribute to the 1976 Young Lions, I firmly believe
the youth can truly honour their legacies by
becoming agents for change; the change they
wish to see.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
42 43
The Gariep Dam is located near the town of Norvalspont, bordering the Free State and Eastern Cape provinces. Its primary purpose is for irrigation,
domestic and industrial use as well as for power generation. It is also a key tourist attraction with the focus on water sport and nature. Gariep Dam
is the biggest dam in South Africa and attracts fishing enthusiasts and boat lovers. It is surrounded by nature reserves with wildlife running on open
plains.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
44 45
Capturing the Soweto Uprising: South
Africa’s most iconic photograph lives on
By Ruth Simbao
South African Research Chair in Geopolitics and the Arts of Africa, Rhodes University
S
am Nzima, the photo-
grapher who captured the
iconic image of the 1976
Soweto Uprising passed
away on 12 May 2018. The
photograph was one of six
frames showing Mbuyisa Makhubu carrying
12-year-old Hector Pieterson who was shot
by police, and Hector’s sister, Antionette
Pieterson (now Sithole), running alongside.
 Sensing the impact these photographs
would have in exposing the cruelty of
apartheid, Nzima hid the roll of film in his
sock. Following the release of the photograph
worldwide, the police were ordered by the
apartheid government to kill Nzima if they
found him taking any photographs. When he
was summoned to John Vorster Square, the
dreaded police headquarters in Johannesburg,
he went into hiding. His career as a journalist
An important question to ask is: to what degree does a powerful photograph reduce
commemoration to the name of one person, thus overlooking the tragedies of other
individuals who were killed on the same day?
CAPTURING THE SOWETO UPRISING: SOUTH AFRICA’S MOST ICONIC PHOTOGRAPH LIVES ON
The persistence of
Nzima’s photograph is
remarkable. Not only
was it used on T-shirts,
posters and pamphlets
in the 1980s, but it has
reappeared in the form
of artworks, memorials,
monuments and
numerous cartoons,
including the work of
cartoonists Sifiso Yalo
and Zapiro.
CAPTURING THE SOWETO UPRISING: SOUTH AFRICA’S MOST ICONIC PHOTOGRAPH LIVES ON
for the anti-apartheid newspaper, The World,
came to an abrupt end.
 While Nzima’s photograph quickly became
known as the most evocative photograph to
emerge from the struggle against apartheid,
initially few people associated the photograph
with him. At times, it was erroneously attributed
to acclaimed photographer Peter Magubane.
 Just over a year later, The World was
banned by the apartheid government, but
Nzima’s photograph lived on. Printed onto
numerous T-shirts, posters and pamphlets, it
became virtually synonymous with protest.
Protest and (over)exposure
What happens to images that appear over and
over again in the visual economy?
 Art historian Colin Richards suggests that
powerful images can also be extraordinarily
vulnerable, for when they are sensationalised,
overexposure can weaken the historical
moments they capture.
 In 1989, liberation struggle stalwart Albie
Sachs made a similar assertion when he
presented the paper “Preparing Ourselves for
Freedom” at an African National Congress in-
house seminar on culture. He argued that: “the
power of art lies precisely in its capacity to expose
contradictions and reveal hidden tensions.”
 Sachs warned that the repetitive use of
visual portrayals of struggle icons such as
guns, clenched fists and protest slogans merely
flattened meaning and impact. His call to ban
the statement “culture is a weapon of struggle”
was contentious and ignited an intense debate.
Respondents such as historian Rushdy
Siers argued that culture was based on lived
experience, and “vivas, raised fists … AK’s and
Amandlas” were indeed the lived experiences
of cultural workers.
The photograph’s shadow
In Nzima’s original photograph, the three
figures cast a deep shadow on the ground.
However, many versions of this image that
were silkscreened onto protest posters and
T-shirts flattened the image and omitted the
shadow. Artworks that drew from this image,
such as Kevin Brand’s duct tape mural on
the outside wall of Musée de Dakar (1998) in
Senegal, and Ernest Pignon-Ernest’s public
murals at Warwick Triangle (2002) in Durban
reintroduced the shadow, suggesting that
this powerful photograph withstood potential
numbing often induced by repetition.
 Recalling philosopher Roland Barthe’s
assertion that texts need shadows in order
to be productive and subversive rather than
sterile, the shadow of this photograph and
its numerous re-representations can be
read as a metaphor for the rich debate that
this image continues to bring to the surface.
Commemoration is contested, and Nzima’s
photograph has raised numerous debates.
 An important question to ask is: to what
degree does a powerful photograph reduce
commemoration to the name of one person,
thus overlooking the tragedies of other
individuals who were killed on the same day?
Due to the wide reach of Nzima’s photograph, it
was initially believed that Hector Pieterson was
the first student to be killed by the police. But
oral testimonies suggest that Hastings Ndlovu
was not only the first to be gunned down, but
was also deliberately sought out by the police.
 Artist Johannes Phokela created a ceramic
memorial wall that is dedicated to student
leader Tsietsi Mashinini. It was unveiled at
the 30th anniversary of 16 June in 2006. The
memorial is shaped like an exercise book and
the grouting between the tiles represents the
lines on the pages.
 This commemoration does not erase
the memory of Hector Pieterson. Nzima’s
photograph is portrayed behind the
words of Mashinini that are written on
the wall. Representing an open book, the
commemorative wall suggests a willingness
to accommodate counter-narratives of the
uprising. As such, the horrific events of this day
are not flattened, but are presented as stories
or texts with shadows.
History reanimated
The persistence of Nzima’s photograph is
remarkable. Not only was it used on T-shirts,
posters and pamphlets in the 1980s, but it has
reappeared in the form of artworks, memorials,
monuments and numerous cartoons, including
the work of cartoonists Sifiso Yalo and Zapiro.
The fact that it raises ongoing debate is
important, as this works against the grain
of much government-led commemoration
that tends to reduce historical events to one-
dimensional interpretation.
 One of the most poignant forms of response
to this iconic image is the live re-enactment
of the photograph. When I participated in
the 2006 commemorative march from Morris
Isaacson High School to the Hector Pieterson
Memorial in Orlando West, a group of young
people ended the march with a re-enactment
of the famous Nzima photograph.
 This performative engagement with
Nzima’s photograph, like the recent
correlations between the Soweto Uprising and
the Rhodes Must Fall movement, is critical in
terms of the reanimation of history. Not only
are the historical events of Nzima’s photograph
recalled, but new generations redefine events
on their own terms and in relation to their own
contexts. This brings alive the shadow of this
iconic photograph.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
46 47
AFRICA’S FREE TRADE AREA OFFERS GREAT PROMISE. BUT ONLY IF RISKS ARE MANAGED WITH RESOLVE
Africa’s free trade area offers great
promise. But only if risks are managed
with resolve
By John Luiz
Professor of International Business Strategy and Emerging Markets at the University of Sussex and the Graduate School of Business,
University of Cape Town
F
or all its stutters and missteps,
there can be little argument that
the European Union (EU) has
largely lived up to its ambitious
billing: to create stability and
growth on a continent that, for a
period, was dangerously prone to nationalism
and conflict.
 The question facing Africa is whether
the continent’s free trade area can likewise
mitigate conflict and forge a prospering Africa.
The African Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) is a project of the African Union
(AU). Founded in 2018, it’s described as a
framework through which to deliver “inclusive
and sustainable growth”. By July 2019, 54
of the AU’s 55 member states had signed
the agreement, with Eritrea the only holdout.
While negotiations are still ongoing, the trade
agreement officially commenced on 1 January
this year. The idea is that it will be rolled out
over three phases.
 The World Bank imagines it as a means “to
lift 30 million people out of extreme poverty”.
The free trade deal won’t solve all of Africa’s woes. But it does have the potential to
increase economic participation and lift citizens out of poverty.
The World Bank
estimates the pact will
boost regional income by
7%, or US$450 billion,
speed up wage growth
for women and lift wages
by 10.3% for unskilled
workers and 9.8% for
skilled workers.
But will it?
 The experience of the EU could help show
the way both in terms of the upside, as well as
potential pitfalls.
Lessons and pitfalls
In terms of success, the EU has contributed to
the advancement of peace and reconciliation,
democracy and human rights in Europe. It
has also promoted economic convergence
between its wealthier and poorer constituent
parts.
 When the EU was awarded the 2012
Nobel Peace Prize, the committee argued that
“through well-aimed efforts and by building
up mutual confidence, historical enemies
can become close partners”. It highlighted
a number of achievements, including the
EU’s contribution to the introduction of
democracy in Greece, Spain and Portugal, the
strengthening of democracy in Eastern Europe
and overcoming the division between East
and West as well as ethnically based national
conflicts.
In terms of pitfalls, the EU has seen its fair
share of detractors and crises.
 For example, questions were asked
about its heavy-handed response during the
Greek debt crisis and more recently about its
response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 But, the EU has shown great resilience, even
in the face of losing one of its largest members,
the United Kingdom (UK), through Brexit.
 It’s easy to aspire to such integration
without recognising the careful construction
and staging of successively deeper integration
that preceded the EU. Before becoming full
members of the EU, candidate countries
have had to meet strict criteria in terms of
governance and economic conditions, among
other factors. Its exclusivity is part of the
reason for its success.
The promise
The main objectives of Africa’s free trade area
are “to create a single continental market for
goods and services, with free movement of
businesspersons and investments”. Its remit is
sweeping: from the reduction of tariffs among
member countries to introducing regulatory
measures such as sanitary standards and
removing technical barriers to trade.
 There are tantalising opportunities
for the plucking. Currently, a massively
underperforming Africa accounts for just
2% of global trade. And only 17% of African
exports are intended for other countries on the
continent, well below intra-continental trade in
Asia (59%) and Europe (68%).
 As the largest free trade area in the world
when measured by the number of participating
countries, the potential for the AfCFTA to
nudge those numbers in the right direction is
significant.
 The United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development suggests that, if the trade
pact is fully implemented, the gross domestic
product of most African countries could rise by
1% to 3% once all tariffs are removed.
 The World Bank estimates the pact will boost
regional income by 7%, or US$450 billion,
speed up wage growth for women and lift
wages by 10.3% for unskilled workers and
9.8% for skilled workers.
The caveats
Some thorny issues still need to be thrashed
out. These include bringing down existing
tariffs. For example, oranges imported from
South Africa for sale in a supermarket in Kenya
currently attract a 25% tariff. Non-tariff barriers,
such as sanitory rules, also need to be tackled.
 Another unresolved issue is finding
consensus over “rules of origin”. This requires
getting agreement on what tariffs, if any, will
apply to goods that one country buys cheaply
in Asia, for example, and wishes to trade in
Africa.
 Vested interests often make it hard to deal
with these issues. Again, the example of the
EU is instructive, as the clear benefits from
membership seemingly outweigh costs.
 Africa needs to overcome some other
challenges too.
African countries rate poorly for ease of doing
business. Only two – Mauritius and Rwanda
– rank among the global top 50 countries
in the World Bank’s Doing Business 2020
report where business can be conducted
with ease.
 Trying to implement a project of this nature
among 54 countries with sometimes vastly
disparate economies and infrastructure will
stretch systems and patience. There are also
challenges associated with marrying the free
trade deal with existing regional agreements,
as well as with bilateral trade agreements with
non-African countries.
 In the case of the EU, candidate countries
had to implement various economic reforms as
part of the price of membership.
Risks and pitfalls
There is the danger that this could be yet
another bold African declaration that is stillborn
or badly implemented. The fall-out could mean
that the continent simply reverts back to the
status quo. But, some countries could be hurt
more than others.
 There is also a danger that the deal
results in winners and losers. It’s therefore
important to accept from the outset that not
all countries will benefit equally. Countries
with larger manufacturing bases and more
developed transport infrastructure and with
more diversified economies are likely to benefit
more.
 If the agreement deepens inequality
between countries, it could raise tensions,
and potentially spark conflict. Here, lessons
gleaned from the EU could help. Under its
arrangement, wealthier countries support
poorer nations within the block through various
transfers.
 The difficulty in Africa is that it has countries
at vastly disparate levels of development
facing different challenges and so each step in
the process is going to be highly contested.
 One possible solution for down the line
would be to put in place a mechanism that
offers both carrot and stick. This could be done,
for example, through the establishment of a
solidarity fund where future gains get “taxed”
with a levy to redistribute between countries to
promote convergence.
Rewards
In 1946, Winston Churchill espoused the
notion of a “United States of Europe”, of the
need to recreate the European family, or as
much of it as we can, and to provide it with a
structure under which it can dwell in peace, in
safety and in freedom.
 That is the role the AfCFTA can play for the
continent.
 To make it work, however, African leaders
need to commit to a full implementation of
the agreement. This will mean that they must
avoid turning inward, and buy into the notion
that a united and coordinated front presents
opportunities for the continent as a whole.
 They must also get buy-in from citizens. As
the UK’s exit from the EU showed, people will
want to opt out if they can’t feel – or understand
– the benefits.
 The free trade deal won’t solve all of Africa’s
woes. But it does have the potential to increase
economic participation and lift citizens out of
poverty.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
48 49
SA RESERVE BANK CELEBRATES 100 YEARS OF ExCELLENCE SA RESERVE BANK CELEBRATES 100 YEARS OF ExCELLENCE
SA Reserve Bank celebrates 100 years
of excellence
By Lesetja Kganyago
Governor of the South African Reserve Bank
The women and men who staff this institution have proved their mettle, repeatedly
rising to the challenges they are faced with. With this strength, we face the future,
optimistic that we will continue to play our vital role in supporting our economy
through maintaining price and financial stability.
There is no question
that our recovery will
progress and our sound
policy frameworks will
continue to allow flexible
approaches while
building confidence.
The SARB debuted its “Big Five” banknote series, and introduced a R5 coin,
commemorating the inauguration of our first democratically elected President, Nelson
Mandela. We have continued the tradition of reflecting on our history and have
released a newly designed R5 coin to commemorate our centenary.
O
n 30 June 1921, at Church
Street east, the first
Governor of the South
African Reserve Bank
(SARB), William Henry
Clegg, and 14 other men
opened the doors of the SARB to the public.
The world had just emerged from World War
I, leading to unusual financial and monetary
conditions. In establishing the SARB, the
primary objective was simple: to restore and
maintain order in the issue and circulation
of domestic currency, and restore the gold
standard to the pre-World War I rate of
exchange. From the archives, the first Board
meeting minutes, dated 29 July 1921 at 10:00,
disclose that the first order of business entailed
“the purchase of property in Pretoria for £7 000
and the first orders of banknotes”. The former
was finalised in the late 1920s, while the first
batch of banknotes ordered from England was
issued to the public on 19 April 1922.
 The monetary policy framework adopted at
the SARB’s founding was the gold standard,
linking banknotes to gold. However, the Great
Depression and its link to weaknesses in the
gold standard ushered in a period of monetary
policy reform. A new policy direction linked the
value of the South African pound to the British
pound sterling, and the further decision to join
the Bretton Woods Agreement in 1946 as a
leading member of the international monetary
system.
 Other currency reforms were initiated
in subsequent years. In the 1950s, the
Decimal Coinage Commission recommended
that South Africa formally introduce a
decimal system, which eventually led to the
introduction of the rand in 1961. This occurred
at the same time that South Africa became a
republic. Despite the introduction of the rand,
the 1960s was a period of rising inflation at
home and globally. In 1967, anti-inflationary
measures were introduced to slow the rise in
the price level. These gains proved short-lived,
however, as inflation again picked up in the
1970s on the back of the United States (US)
dollar depreciation (as the US removed parity
to gold), major fiscal expansions and the first
oil price crisis. By the end of the decade, oil
prices had tripled and inflation reached post-
war highs around the world.
 The early 1960s, amid the introduction of
a new currency, also saw signs of inflation,
resulting in anti-inflationary measures that, by
1967, slowed the rate of price increases. These
troubles ushered in a period of economic policy
reform that eventually led us to the modern
approaches to monetary and fiscal policy that
we see today.
 Leading up to the 1980s, South Africa was
in deep political and economic turmoil. At the
height of the anti-apartheid struggle, inflation
hit a high of 18.4% in 1986, and annual growth
slowed to 1.6% for the decade. Significant
capital outflows resulting from the debt default
and economic sanctions saw another policy
reform: exchange controls. The SARB adopted
a broadly defined money supply (M3) growth
target framework. Inflation gradually slowed
towards the end of the decade, averaging
12.9% in 1989. The SARB Act of 1944 was
replaced by the South African Reserve Bank
Act 90 of 1989, which contained the revised
primary objective wording of “monetary stability
and balanced growth”.
 The 1990s ushered in a renewed spirit
among South Africans with the advent of
democracy. Continuity amid the change was
crucial for the smooth transition to democracy
and gaining international investor confidence.
This led to President Nelson Mandela asking
Dr Chris Stals to continue serving as Governor.
A critical pillar to this was ensuring that the
SARB as an institution was stable, by retaining
institutional memory and the requisite skills,
while at the same time preparing to transform
the organisation.
 The SARB debuted its “Big Five”
banknote series and introduced a R5 coin,
commemorating the inauguration of our first
democratically elected President, Nelson
Mandela. We have continued the tradition of
reflecting on our history and have released a
newly designed R5 coin to commemorate our
centenary.
 The adoption of our Constitution in 1996
saw the SARB bestowed greater responsibility
in the rebuilding of our economy. The
SARB’s primary objective reads: “to protect
the value of the currency in the interest of
balanced and sustainable economic growth
in the Republic”. Moreover, “in pursuit of its
primary object, [the SARB] must perform
its functions independently and without
fear, favour or prejudice, but there must be
regular consultation between the Bank and
the Cabinet member responsible for national
financial matters”. Central bank independence
emerged as an effective way of ensuring
that monetary policy focussed on the key
objective of keeping prices stable. To ensure
that the SARB could pursue that objective
independently and effectively, the late 1990s
were marked by further enquiry into monetary
policy frameworks.
 The early 2000s saw our biggest policy
shift, the adoption of the inflation-targeting
framework. At the time, South Africa was the
13th country to introduce this policy framework.
The Governor at the time, Tito Mboweni, was
tasked with guiding the SARB through this
uncharted territory. Our inflation target, set by
the Minister of Finance in consultation with the
SARB, is between 3% and 6%. The adoption
of inflation targeting saw a radical change in
the way in which the SARB communicated
with the public, focussing on transparency
through communication, and ensuring that
independence and accountability worked hand
in hand.
 The flexibility of the inflation-targeting
framework and its anchoring of public
expectations about inflation assisted the
country to weather the global financial crisis
in 2008 and 2009. With the critical role of
financial institutions in that crisis underscored,
Governor Gill Marcus helped expand the
SARB’s mandate to explicitly include financial
stability. In doing so, the Financial Stability
Committee was formed and resources
expanded for its work. The early 2010s also
saw Cabinet approve the move towards the
Twin Peaks model. The Financial Sector
Regulation Act was signed into law on 21
August 2017, paving the way for the formation
of the Prudential Authority. In April 2018, the
Prudential Authority was officially launched,
amalgamating the SARB’s Bank Supervision
Department, the Insurance division of the
Financial Services Board and the Supervisory
team of the Cooperative Banks Development
Agency.
 The SARB was born at a time when the
world was exiting the devastating impact
of the 1918 Spanish Flu pandemic. As we
approached our centenary year, the world
began grappling with the great flu pandemic
of our time, the COVID-19 pandemic. As
COVID-19 cases began to rise, South
Africa, like many other countries, mandated
forceful containment measures to abate the
human cost associated with the virus. While
these measures minimised the impact on
human lives, they came at a great cost to the
economy. South Africa’s real gross domestic
product contracted by a substantial 7% in
2020. This was the second-largest annual
contraction since 1920, and about five times
larger than the contraction following the
global financial crisis in 2009. Unemployment
recorded its highest level since Statistics South
Africa began measuring unemployment. Both
headline producer and consumer price inflation
recorded historic annual average lows of 2.5%
and 3.3% respectively for 2020.
 In anticipation of the economic shock that
would ensue, the SARB responded quickly

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
50 51
and aggressively with a broad array of actions
to limit the economic damage. The SARB’s
policy responses encompassed monetary
policy instruments, interventions in financial
market operations, regulatory tools as well as
collaborations with other entities to provide
relief to the economy and enable the financial
sector to help customers in need. In addition,
through its participation in global fora, the
SARB contributed to the strengthening of the
global financial safety net.
 South Africa entered the COVID-19 crisis
with stable and low inflation rates and moderate
SA RESERVE BANK CELEBRATES 100 YEARS OF ExCELLENCE
As part of its centenary celebrations, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) released a
commemorative R5 coin as well as a gold-plated sterling-silver collector’s coin.
 The coin, which depicts the design of previously issued coins, will circulate alongside the
existing coins, and its value will remain the same as the existing R5.
 The existing R5 coin in circulation will also remain legal tender and will continue to be
issued.
 The bank also launched a refreshed currency mobile app to create greater public awareness
of South African banknotes and coin, as well as the role of the SARB.
 Some of the previously issued coins that appear in the new R5 include:
•  the 1923 three pence (tickey) represents the currency issued during the period of the Union
 of South Africa
•  a 1961 R1 gold coin features the springbok, South Africa’s national animal
•  the 1965 20c coin depicts the king protea, South Africa’s national flower
•  the 1990 1c coin features two sparrows and represents the third decimal coin series
•  the R5 coin minted in 2008, in honour of former President Nelson Mandela’s 90th birthday,
recognises his vast contribution to South Africa
•  a 10c coin from the fourth decimal series depicts the Cape honey bee and represents the
future of the currency and the SARB.
The obverse of the coin features the traditional Coat of Arms as well, the name of the
country in two official languages  – “uMzantsi Afrika” and “Suid-Afrika”, as well as the 2021
printing date.
i
inflation expectations, giving the SARB
significant policy space to provide support to
households and firms, primarily through the
reduction in the repurchase (repo) rate. The
repo rate was cut by a cumulative 275 basis
points between March and July 2020. At the
current rate of 3.5% (from 6.5% on 1 January
2020), the repo rate is at an all-time low, while
the prime rate, at 7.0%, is at a 54-year low.
 The economic recovery is still on track,
but there will be pitfalls along the way. There
is no question that our recovery will progress
and our sound policy frameworks will continue
to allow flexible approaches while building
confidence.
 The SARB is a solid institution that all
South Africans can be proud of. The women
and men who staff this institution have proved
their mettle, repeatedly rising to the challenges
they are faced with. With this strength, we face
the future, optimistic that we will continue to
play our vital role in supporting our economy
through maintaining price and financial
stability.
10028068 BSA JSE Quarterly 275X210_02.indd   1
Try South Africa. On a continent that is
considered the world’s future for the next 20
years in terms of growth and demand, South
Africa delivers world-class infrastructure and
a sophisticated business environment. Come
to Africa and choose the country that has
been voted the top investment destination
in Africa. Choose South Africa.
Go to www.brandsouthafrica.com
TOKYO, BERLIN
OR SHANGHAI?c  Gautrain Management Agency
Brand South Africa

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
52 53
ROOIBOS TEA: EU PROTECTION IS GOOD NEWS FOR SOUTH AFRICAN AGRICULTURE ROOIBOS TEA: EU PROTECTION IS GOOD NEWS FOR SOUTH AFRICAN AGRICULTURE
Rooibos tea: EU protection is good
news for South African agriculture
By Enrico Bonadio, Reader in Intellectual Property Law, City, University of London, and
Magali Contardi, PhD Candidate, Intellectual Property Law, Universidad de Alicante
Rooibos is in good company – this is the same kind of protection given to
champagne, prosciutto di Parma, feta and many other iconic foods. This designation
contributes to a product’s global standing, and is likely to have benefits – economic
and beyond – for the region.
T
he European Union (EU)
recently added rooibos (red
bush) tea to its register of
products with a protected
designation of origin. The iconic
tea is the first African product
to receive such status in the EU, and the 40th
from a non-EU country.
 Rooibos is in good company – this is the
same kind of protection given to champagne,
prosciutto di Parma, feta and many other
iconic foods. This designation contributes to
a product’s global standing, and is likely to
have benefits – economic and beyond – for the
region.
 Protected status is given to products whose
quality is strictly linked to the local area and
peculiar manufacturing techniques.
The new EU designation is likely to offer rooibos producers and farmers a valuable
market advantage, because only infusions produced in the local area north of Cape
Town and according to specific rules can be labelled “rooibos ”.
This brand monopoly in the EU will arguably enhance the economic development of the
Western Cape and the whole of South Africa. The region already produces an average
of 14 000 tonnes of rooibos per year, and in 2019-20 expanding global demand
resulted in an increase to about 20 000 tonnes.
Rooibos is obtained through the infusion of
dried leaves or stems of Aspalathus linearis.
The plant grows in Cederberg, a mountain
region with a fertile soil north of Cape Town,
and in harsh microclimate conditions with hot
dry summers and wet winters. Once harvested,
the bushy plant is grown following a specific
process to produce a tea that is fruity, woody,
spicy in taste and naturally caffeine-free.
 Café de Colombia was the first-ever non-
EU product protected under this scheme in
2007, followed in 2011 by others such as the
Indian tea Darjeeling and Chinese green tea
Longjing cha.
 Part of the EU legal framework for
protecting regional foods is that they
have acquired a strong reputation among
consumers. Favourable climates and
centuries-old manufacturing techniques rooted
in their designated areas have contributed to
this renown.
 These protected designations identify
“products with a story”. Rooibos tea is now one
of them. Its new EU status will “signal its unique
quality to consumers, not only in Europe but
all over the world”, Western Cape Minister of
Agriculture, Ivan Meyer, said.
Authenticity matters
Such legal protection matters, as attempts
to misappropriate the rooibos brand have
occurred in the past. In 2013, a French company
tried to register the trademark “rooibos” for
skincare products in France (one of the health
benefits of this tea is its rich antioxidant content
that may improve skin health).
The new EU designation is likely to offer
rooibos producers and farmers a valuable
market advantage, because only infusions
produced in the local area north of Cape Town
and according to specific rules can be labelled
“rooibos”. This ensures that tea produced in
other areas cannot be sold in the EU – one
of the biggest markets in the world – under
the name rooibos/red bush. Evocative uses
of such designations by third parties (for
example, “Rooibos kind”, “Red Bush type”,
“Rooibos style” or “Red Bush imitation”) are
also prohibited.
 This brand monopoly in the EU will
arguably enhance the economic development
of the Western Cape and the whole of South
Africa. The region already produces an
average of 14 000 tonnes of rooibos per year,
and in 2019-20 expanding global demand
resulted in an increase to about 20 000 tonnes.
 The South African Rooibos Council
estimated that the total rooibos sales in 2020
equalled six billion cups of tea – close to
one cup per human on earth. It also reported
that half the production is consumed locally,
whereas the other half is exported to more
than 60 countries. In 2019, the biggest export
markets were Germany (28%), Japan (22%),
the Netherlands (9%) and the United Kingdom
(8%).
 The global herbal tea market is growing
at 7% per year. With rooibos’ new EU status,
not only is the global demand for this product
expected to increase; related sectors, such
as agritourism, are also likely to benefit. In
2021, an EU report revealed that European
food products listed on the EU register of all
protected geographical names generated in
2017 an estimated sales value of €77 billion
(£66 billion).
 As the example of Darjeeling tea shows,
premium pricing and more robust revenues
often follow geographical name protection
as a result of consumers’ recognition of the
product’s quality. This is exactly what farmers
and the entity that manages the rooibos brand
(the South African Rooibos Council) now
expect.
Beyond economics
The rooibos EU designation could also
contribute to further promoting South African
gastronomic heritage and genetic resources.
As Mogale Sebopetsa, head of the Western
Cape Department of Agriculture, put it, “in this
way, we safeguard our heritage for posterity”.
 The use of the dried leaves and stems of
rooibos as a tea was first reported in 1772,
although Khoisan indigenous people from
western South Africa have been consuming
the drink made with rooibos for centuries.
The name itself derives from the Afrikaans
language, meaning “red bush” and referring to
the plant’s red-brown leaves.
 Employment could be boosted, too. As
confirmed in the Rooibos Council report, the
rooibos industry is already the biggest employer
of people from the rural provinces of South
Africa, with direct income and employment
given to more than 8 000 farm labourers, and
many others in the supply chain (processing,
packaging and retailing). With more production
and international sales in sight, this trend will
probably increase.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
54 55
A PORTAL DESIGNED ESPECIALLY FOR INFORMAL BUSINESSES COULD BE A GAME-CHANGER
A portal designed especially for informal
businesses could be a game-changer
By Professor Justine Olawande Daramola
Cape Peninsula University of Technology
A
frica has the highest proportion
of informal sector workers
anywhere in the world. They
account for more than 85%
of the continent’s workers.
This compares with 68.2% in
Asia and the Pacific, 68.6% in the Arab States,
40.0% in the Americas and 25.1% in Europe
and Central Asia.
 It is easier to work in the informal sector
because no academic certificate or formal
training is required. The most important thing
is the readiness and ability to work.
 The informal sector consists of all
businesses that don’t fall under government
African governments must explore how state-backed platforms can be used to
support the informal sector. They can be used to help informal businesses access
bigger markets and thereby increase their incomes.
A PORTAL DESIGNED ESPECIALLY FOR INFORMAL BUSINESSES COULD BE A GAME-CHANGER
regulation. These include all forms of petty
trading, artisan work, and sales and supply of
goods. They also include diverse services such
as hairdressing, barbers, mechanics, painters,
handyman, artisans, domestic services and
other work endeavours that people engage in
for money. This definition excludes people who
are involved in crime.
 But these businesses face numerous
challenges, which hinder their growth. Based
on research in South Africa, these include:
lack of access to finance; poor access to
skills training and technology; weak informal
business associations and their lack of
“voice”; problems in the legal and regulatory
project on Technology Support for the Informal
Sector of South Africa. The goal was to tackle
some of the challenges of the informal sector
through ICT in a way that was beneficial to all
stakeholders.
 The project aims to provide an online platform
(portal) that uses Artificial Intelligence and cloud
technology to support business transactions in
the informal sector. So far, the first version of the
platform (called Uvuyo) has been created. It will
enable informal business owners to register on
the portal for free, and position their businesses
to be seen by customers.
 We will go further in the second phase of
the project to ensure that interactions between
customers and service providers on the portal
can be done in local South African languages
using text or voice messages.
 Online platforms that are specifically
designed to support local people in the informal
sector of Africa in this way are not yet common.
 In a paper published in 2018, I set out
how purpose-built portals could help informal
businesses meet some of their basic needs.
I proposed the creation of an online platform
that could be accessed via mobile phone, web
or voice input. I argued that the platform would
meet some well-known challenges such as poor
service quality and a lack of visibility. And that
government agencies could benefit from data
generated from the portal to make strategic
plans on how to develop the informal sector
better.
 Many new modern businesses are based
on the idea of a sharing economy where a
technology platform facilitates on-demand
services between customers in need of
services and providers of these services. Many
international companies that are doing well,
such as Uber, Bolt and Taskrabbit.com, use this
approach.
We believe the same idea can be used to
promote informal sector services.
What’s in place, and what’s missing?
Africa already has a reasonable foundation
for the extensive use of technology. Take the
widespread use of mobile phones. A recent
report showed that 91% of adults in South
Africa own a mobile phone, 51% of adults
have a smartphone and 40% have a basic
phone.
 Ghana, Senegal, Nigeria, Kenya and
Tanzania also have relatively high-mobile
penetration with over 30% of the adult
population having a smartphone.
 This means that an informal service
provider can engage in business transactions
with customers over the phone via SMS or
social media.
 Today, a lot of people post information
about their business on social media to gain
the attention of customers. Smartphones
enable service providers to link instantly with
customers.
 The continent has a number of businesses
that operate this way. Notable examples
include Kenya’s lynk.co.ke; Nigeria’s
kobo360.com, anyservice.ng and fixam.com.
ng; and South Africa’s Sweepsouth.com,
domestly.com and kandua.com.
 They make money by matching customers
with service providers. They vet credentials
of service providers, receive payments on
their behalf and provide a guarantee for the
risks of transactions. They also get rewarded
by receiving a percentage of the service cost
paid by the customer.
 These online platforms – business models
that are part of the so-called sharing economy
– are becoming more popular in Africa,
particularly among the younger generation.
But governments in Africa are yet to take
advantage of this trend to help the informal
sector and micro businesses. Thus far,
virtually all the well-known platforms based
on the sharing economy are run by private
enterprises.
 African governments must explore how
state-backed platforms can be used to support
the informal sector. They can be used to help
informal businesses access bigger markets
and thereby increase their incomes.
Next steps
Governments will have to put in a lot of money
and resources to make it work, and deal with
the obvious challenges faced by the informal
sector and informal sector workers.
 For example, money will need to be spent
on training users of the online platforms since
most people in the informal sector have low
levels of education. A possible solution might
be to make information available in languages
that sections of the informal sector community
speak and read. Not-for-profit organisations
can help with recruitment and training of
informal sector workers, and their registration
on the platform.
 Other interventions should include free
Internet, free data or cheap data for micro
businesses and informal operators who cannot
afford the cost of data to use the Internet.
 The question then is who pays the data cost.
 This is where the participation of
governments, multinational companies and
telecom companies all across Africa will be
required. With various governments taking the
lead, these entities can collaboratively support
the informal sector to ensure that technology
is used for the good of the majority of Africans
who work in the informal sector.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
environment and issues of intergovernmental
coordination; lack of organisation; poor quality
of service; and lack of service standards. They
also lack business documentation, making it
difficult for governments to tax them.
 The same challenges are associated with
the informal sector of most African countries.
 There have been a number of information,
communications and technology (ICT)-based
initiatives in South Africa targeting small, micro
and medium-sized enterprises.
 But they have all bypassed the informal
sector.
 The Cape Peninsula University of Technology
sought to close this gap by initiating a research

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
56 57
THE SDGS AND SOUTH AFRICA’S FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS THE SDGS AND SOUTH AFRICA’S FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
The SDGs and South Africa’s Fourth
Industrial Revolution Commission
recommendations
By Dr Bhaso Ndzendze, Head of the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Johannesburg (UJ); and
Professor Tshilidzi Marwala, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of UJ, Deputy Chairperson of the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial
Revolution and member of the Namibia Fourth Industrial Revolution Task Force W
e live in technologically
defined times, which
are set to become
increasingly so as
we enter the Fourth
Industrial Revolution
(4IR). The scope of inequality between
industrialised and industrialising worlds has
long been recognised by the international
community, with the United Nations at the
forefront in the new millennium. Following
on the heels of the Millennium Development
Goals (2000 – 2015), the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) represent a total
of 17 socio-economic aspirations to be realised
The Fourth Industrial Revolution highlights the continued relevance of technology as
a catalyst in the Sustainable Development Goals, with essentially all of them requiring
technological inputs, as well as renewed thinking around sustainability.
by the year 2030. In sum, they represent a
“catchup” approach to development, both as a
project and more explicitly in SDG 10 (reduced
inequalities).
 They recognise that technological access
works as a key determinant of the economic
performance for countries. This is expressly
the case in SDGs 8, 9 and 10 as they note
that sustainable economic growth will require
societies to create the conditions that allow
people to have quality jobs. Furthermore, they
observe that investments in infrastructure are
crucial to achieving sustainable development.
Additionally, they assert that to reduce
inequalities, policies should be universal in
principle, paying attention to the needs of
disadvantaged and marginalised populations,
respectively. They also entail a recognition of
the need to reduce internal inequalities along
the lines of gender (SDG 5).
 In this regard, the 4IR is a complicating
factor, as it presents both challenges, with
inequality within countries and between
countries standing to be widened, reproduced
and perpetuated. But, just as well, it
represents opportunity, provided the less
developed and still industrialising countries
bolster their absorptive capacity. Moreover,
the 4IR highlights the continued relevance of
technology as a catalyst in the SDGs, with
essentially all of them requiring technological
inputs, as well as renewed thinking around
sustainability (particularly affordable and
clean energy per SDG 7), given the high
energy demand represented by the growth of
automation, blockchain technologies and data
storage. Already, some 25% of global energy
consumption stems from cooling off computers
in data centres.
 It was against the backdrop of the
convergence of these technological changes
and developmental imperatives that the South
African Government set up the Presidential
Commission on the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (PC4IR) in 2018, beginning
operations in 2019. The PC4IR presented
its report at the beginning of August 2020 to
President Cyril Ramaphosa, following two
years of consultative sessions, stakeholder
engagement, comparative research on the 4IR
strategies and trajectories of other countries
as well as punctilious analysis of the various
aspects of the South African and global
economies. From this, the PC4IR proposed
eight core recommendations:
1. Invest in Human Capital
2.  Establish an Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Institute
3.  Establish a Platform for Advanced
Manufacturing and New Materials
4. Secure and Avail Data to Enable Innovation
5.  Incentivise Future Industries, Platforms and
Applications of 4IR Technologies
6. Build 4IR Infrastructure
7.  Review and Amend (or Create) Policy and
Legislation
8.  Establish a 4IR Strategy Implementation
Coordination Council in The Presidency.
A number of these recommendations have
readily apparent moorings with the SDGs. The
prioritisation of human capital development
is pertinent to the SDGs' focus on the
dissemination of quality education as per SDG
4. The meaning of “quality” takes on renewed
relevance given the kinds of skills required of the
worker, economic participant and citizen of the
future. This requires a focus on computational
thinking. With South Africa’s basic education
budget representing the most significant
portion of its annual national expenditure and
being higher than the global average of 5%
of gross domestic product (GDP), the country
(at above 6%) has not attained as much as it
should from this massive investment. In 2014,
the World Economic Forum’s competitiveness
report ranked the country last out of 148
countries for the quality of its Mathematics and
Science education. The worst-affected schools
in this regard are schools in rural settings.
 The establishment of an AI Institute, on
the other hand, similarly has congruence with
SDG 4 as it indicates the prioritisation of the
widespread knowledge of AI. Moreover, in its
noting that “the AI institute will be responsible
for the country’s computer vision and deal
with arising ethical issues but will not replace
the role of the universities in carrying out
basic research on these issues”, the PC4IR
advocates for national and international
partnerships. The report therefore recognises
the importance of partnerships in the same
vein as SDG 17 (partnerships to achieve the
goals).
 On 5 August 2020, government, the private
sector, non-governmental organisations and
institutions of higher education gathered for
the first South African AI Dialogue, with a view
towards fostering an inclusive and prosperous
AI ecosystem in the country.
 On the other hand, in the advocacy for
expertise in advanced manufacturing and new
materials, the PC4IR is congruent with SDG
9, as it will fulfil the goal of ensuring decent
work and economic growth, while also giving
impetus to SDG 9 as it requires investments in
industry, innovation and infrastructure to offset
the trend of de-industrialisation, which saw the
country’s manufacturing base, for example,
decline from 21% of its GDP in 1995 to 13.53%
in 2019. Similarly, the fourth, fifth and sixth
recommendations (securing and releasing
data to enable innovation, prioritising future
industries and investing in 4IR infrastructure)
are in keeping with SDG 9 as they will result in
a reinvigorated industry and innovation while
also integrating enabling smart cities and smart
villages that will mean more efficient service
delivery, increased tourism and new forms of
economic participation by those currently on
the margins of the formal economy. They also
stand to promote access to decent work and
economic growth (SDG 8).
 The seventh recommendation of the PC4IR,
the promulgation of legislation, is in keeping
with SDG 16 as it recognises the enabling
and regulatory role that institutions should play
in the creation of a conducive and inclusive
environment. Moreover, the legislation stands
to bring predictability in times of disruptive
innovation.
 Finally, the creation of the Coordination
Council with access to the head of state
allows for the forging and management of
partnerships, with national and international
networks and initiatives to be channelled in the
most efficient and impactful directions.
The South African Government set up the Presidential
Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution
(PC4IR) in 2018.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
58 59
T
his year, we deemed it proper
that we celebrate Africa
Day together as Southern
African Development
Community (SADC) ministries
responsible for information and
communications technologies (ICTs) under the
theme: Accelerating Digital Transformation in
Challenging Times, Throughout the Year with
National, Regional and International Initiatives.
 We celebrated Africa Day under the cloud
of the COVID-19 pandemic, a challenge which
has put human genius to test in a manner that
knows no parallel in recent history. As we raise
our banners in memory of those we lost as a
result of COVID-19, we rededicate ourselves
as a region to work together in confronting the
pandemic.
 In spite of our limited resources, we have
coped well so far. The economic impact
has been severe, and it has knocked many
Accelerating digital transformation in
challenging times with national, regional
and international initiatives
By Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams
Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies
The COVID-19 crisis must be viewed as an opportunity to leapfrog Africa to new
heights, exploiting new opportunities brought about by the advent of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution.
ACCELERATING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN CHALLENGING  TIMES ACCELERATING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN CHALLENGING  TIMES
countries off-course from the promising growth
trajectories that were prevalent on much of
our continent before the crisis. On the other
hand, the COVID-19 crisis must be viewed
as an opportunity to leapfrog Africa to new
heights, exploiting new opportunities brought
about by the advent of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution. This gives new impetus to our
global priority of connecting the unconnected,
and demonstrates the importance of access to
broadband.
 There has been a significant increase in the
demand for ICTs and the use of the Internet.
Unfortunately, this has been accompanied
by rising inequality, whereby lack of access
to the Internet leaves our disadvantaged
communities more vulnerable. Access to
broadband will enable our peoples to access
health services, education and governmental
services online when necessary, and thus
reduce the need for public gatherings. It will
intra-regional trade. The COVID-19 pandemic
has underscored the importance of reducing
the external economic dependencies of the
continent. Currently, we carry excessive risk
from the fortunes or attitudes of the major
economic powers and regions, which cannot
be good in times of crisis.
 Of greater importance in the longer term
is that, by easing the ability to trade within
the continent, we will provide a platform for
African businesses to flourish and benefit from
economies of scale within the region, thus
increasing regional economic activity. This
could create a virtual dynamic effect, creating
further opportunities for our businesses to
benefit from a thriving regional economy.
African companies need other African markets
to thrive and develop capabilities to build more
value-added products. However, there is much
work to do to fully benefit from the AfCFTA.
We need to strengthen the infrastructure
that links our economies, businesses and
people together. This must include not only
the transport infrastructure, but also the ICT
sector. ICTs will be critical in linking business
and people together, providing the first step in
strengthening regional integration.
 It is therefore important to continue to
prioritise and strengthen our programmes to
build our regional and national ICT infrastructure
and the digital economy. The implementation
of the African Digital Transformation Strategy
will no doubt be critical to support regional
integration. In particular, we must look to
create an enabling environment, and develop
appropriate policies and regulations for the
sector that will support the development of our
digital infrastructure, digital skills and capacity-
building, entrepreneurship and innovation.
We must also address the cross-cutting
issues (digital content and applications, digital
ID, emerging technologies, cyber security,
and personal data protection, research and
development) to ensure we transform our
digital future.
 Equally important, the draft African
e-commerce strategy will provide the basis
for dramatically improving e-commerce in
the region. This could be critical to ensure
African countries benefit from this rapidly
growing sector, both in terms of participating
meaningfully in the logistics supply chain,
and by providing platforms for SMMEs and
manufacturers to benefit from intra-regional
trade and international exports through
e-commerce. This will include implementing
measures to modernise our customs services
in line with the World Customs Organisation,
and capacitating our postal services through
the Universal Postal Union.
In addition, it is critical we also look at the ICT
sector from the perspective of local economic
development. How can we develop and
nurture local production of ICTs, including
both hardware and software, as well as in the
creative industries?
 It is critical to our future as Africa, to find
ways to unlock the potential of local innovation.
We must create an environment that will allow
our innovative SMMEs and entrepreneurs
to flourish and to access regional and global
opportunities. This will contribute to local
economic development, with local innovation
often creating solutions that are relevant
for our local circumstances and challenges.
Often, such solutions can resonate globally
too. Local innovation and SMME development
can lead to an increase in our local intellectual
property, higher value employment creation,
and increased local and regional investment
and production, as well as exports.
 Encouragingly, at the ITU Digital World
Exhibition and Forum last year, an impressive
number of SMMEs from SADC were
recognised for their innovative ideas at a global
level. Appy Saude of Angola won the award for
e-health. Companies from Botswana, Malawi,
Mozambique, South Africa and Zambia were
shortlisted in all the remaining categories,
which is an impressive showing from our
region. Clearly, we have great potential.
However, more needs to be done to create
an environment that is conducive, that will
enable these creative and mostly young
entrepreneurs to convert their ideas into a
successful business.
 In each of the preceding three years, young
South Africa entrepreneurs have won awards
in the ITU Digital World. In 2018, we dominated
the prizes, winning the overall SMME global
award, and three of the four category prizes.
That year, we took approximately 50 SMMEs
to the event, as we were the host.
 We need to harness the energy and
creativity of our young aspiring entrepreneurs
in the region. We must find ways to help them
to develop their business plans and skills, and
to create a supportive ecosystem that will allow
them to develop. They need access to finance
and markets. Their success will encourage
others, and will unleash the creative potential
of our youth to solve the developmental
challenges we face. Our youthful population
is a significant demographic asset. However,
they need opportunities to shine.
 Their success will assist in the upliftment of
our people and our economies.
also enable greater access to the rapidly
growing e-commerce sector.
 It is in this context that our commemoration
of Africa Day reflected on our responsibility
to accelerate digital transformation in
challenging times – the theme of the World
Telecommunications and Information Society
Day this year.
 We already have a comprehensive
programme as SADC countries, which is
updated regularly to respond to emerging
issues. Three issues offer great potential for
the development of our region.
 Firstly, the 21st-century financing models
for sustainable broadband development. The
issue of financing broadband roll-out has
long been a challenge for many developing
countries around the world. We all agree on the
priority of rolling out broadband, the benefits it
brings to society and to our economies, and
the importance of extending participation in the
digital economy. The recurring challenge that
we continue to face is that of funding.
 The United Nations Broadband Commission
was established in 2010, with the mission “to
bridge the digital divide and bring the goal of
universal connectivity to the forefront of policy
discussions”. It brings together a group of
influential leaders from government, business,
and experts from international organisations,
academia and development organisations.
It has produced some valuable reports
addressing a range of important subjects. Of
particular relevance is the work that is being
finalised on Innovative Financing Models for
Sustainable Broadband Development.
 As South Africa, we are interested in this
work as it may further assist us in implementing
the SA Connect programme, which is our
national broadband roll-out strategy. SA
Connect seeks to ensure universal service
and access to reliable, affordable and secure
broadband services to all South Africans,
prioritising rural and underserviced areas.
A key goal of the programme is to enable
schools, health facilities and government
offices to access connectivity through
high-speed Internet access. Through this
programme, over 44 000 government facilities
will be provided with high-speed broadband
connectivity. Government will be collaborating
with the private sector, including greater
participation of small, medium and micro
enterprises (SMMEs), in rolling out broadband
in an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable
manner.
 SA Connect seeks to pool public-sector
demand for broadband, in order to stimulate
investment into broadband infrastructure. In
the process, cross-border connectivity will
also be addressed by upgrading infrastructure
and increasing network capacity to improve
regional integration.
 The benefits of broadband to economic
growth have been widely recognised by
international organisations such as the World
Bank and the International Telecommunication
Union (ITU). The recent research from the
Broadband Commission recognises that
broadband investment is not just about the
traffic that goes on the network. Rather,
broadband investment creates an ecosystem
of economic activity.
 The second issue concerns the African
Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).
This is a critical and timely intervention for
the development of the African continent.
It embodies the ideal of greater integration
and of a united Africa. Currently, 80% to 90%
of Africa’s trade is directed to the rest of the
world, which is higher than any other region.
Consequently, we have very low levels of

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
60 61
Annually, from roughly June to December, Hermanus is known as a mecca for whale watching, with the southern right whales choosing the area as
their home and “playground”. The estimated population of southern right whales in Hermanus is 12 000.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
62 63
COVID-19 HAS SHOWN THAT FOLLOWING THE SAME ROAD WILL LEAD THE WORLD OVER A PRECIPICE
By Ian Goldin
Professor of Globalisation and Development
Director of the Oxford Martin Programmes on Technological and Economic Change and Future of Development, University of OxfordD
espite the tragic deaths,
suffering and sadness that
it has caused, the pandemic
could go down in history
as the event that rescued
humanity. It has created
a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reset
our lives and societies onto a sustainable
path. Global surveys and protests have
demonstrated the appetite for fresh thinking
and a desire not to return to the pre-pandemic
world.
 The devastating consequences of
COVID-19 have led to a deepening recognition
that business as usual is highly destabilising
and the source of our darkest fears. It has
shattered the mental mirrors that have
prevented us from breaking from the past and
embracing new horizons.
 In Rescue: From Global Crisis to a Better
World, I show how the Coronavirus rupture
has demonstrated that citizens are prepared to
It is in every country’s self-interest to cooperate to contain global threats. Similarly, it
is in each of our own self-interest to contribute to the creation of more cohesive and
stable societies.
COVID-19 HAS SHOWN THAT FOLLOWING THE SAME ROAD WILL LEAD THE WORLD OVER A PRECIPICE
change their behaviour when required to do so.
And that governments are able to break out of
their economic straitjackets.
 My work on globalisation and development
has led me to believe that while flows across
national borders – trade, people, finance,
medicines, and most importantly ideas –
are a very good thing, they also can lead to
growing risk and inequality unless properly
managed. What I think of as the Butterfly
Defect of globalisation has created a new
form of systemic risk. It was the source of
the global spread of the 2008 financial crisis,
is evident in escalating climate change and
inequality and has now overwhelmed us with
the COVID-19 pandemic.
 I have been predicting that a global
pandemic was likely and would inevitably
lead to an economic meltdown. The only
question is why more effort hasn’t been put
into managing this underbelly of globalisation
and the reluctance to depart from the
business as usual. My book shows why we
urgently need to.
 Old excuses for inaction are no longer
credible. The task now is to turn the reactive
response to the health and economic
emergencies into a proactive set of policies
and actions to create an inclusive and
sustainable world of shared prosperity.
Before the pandemic, this may have seemed
unattainable, even idealistic. Changes that
would have taken a decade or more to emerge
have taken place almost overnight.
Into sharp relief
Among the positive changes have been a
deeper recognition of the importance of nature,
the role of essential workers, the contributions
of science and experts and having supportive
family, friends and colleagues.
 But the pandemic has also exacerbated
health and economic inequalities within
awareness of other threats, including those
posed by future pandemics and climate
change, and has given us the means to rescue
our lives and the future.
 COVID-19 has caused the biggest
development setback of our lifetimes, reversing
70 years of progress. Low- and middle-income
countries suffered negative growth for the first
time since the 1950s
 Many more people will have died of
starvation and poverty-related causes than
from the direct health impact of COVID-19.
 The pandemic has resulted in as many as
an additional 150 million people falling into
extreme poverty, and acute hunger doubling
from 130 million people in 2019 to 260 million
in 2020. In many poor countries, education
and health systems have collapsed and
government safety nets are threadbare, where
they exist at all.
 It is business as usual, which allowed the
world to be overwhelmed by COVID-19. The
pandemic has revealed and exacerbated
inequalities within countries and between
them.
 It forcefully demonstrates why bouncing
back or forward along the same road we are
on is leading us over a precipice. Without
systemic change, we are all condemned to a
more unequal and unstable future. COVID-19
has generated the potential to create a fairer
and more inclusive world.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
COVID-19 has shown that following the
same road will lead the world over a
precipice
featUre |
countries and between them, devastating
the lives and livelihoods of many and greatly
increasing isolation and mental illness. A world
that functions online is more atomised and
may lead to a hardening of social and political
silos. Unless the negative consequences of
the pandemic are urgently addressed, they will
cast a long, dark shadow.
 The idea that there is no such thing as
society, only selfish individuals, can now be
relegated to the dustbin of history. We have
witnessed an outpouring of solidarity, not
least of the young for the old and of essential
workers for others. The young sacrificed their
social lives, education and jobs and took
on enormous debts to help the elderly get
through COVID-19. Essential workers placed
themselves at daily risk to staff our care
homes and hospitals and ensure that food
was delivered, rubbish collected and that lights
stayed on. Many sacrificed their own health for
others.
 The intolerable costs of austerity and a
culture that celebrated individualism and
undermined the State have been starkly
revealed.
 The world wars forever changed global
politics and economics; the economist John
Maynard Keynes argued that it was necessary
to “snatch from the exigencies of war positive
social improvements”.
 The pandemic too will change everything,
from personal priorities to global power.
It marks the end of the neoliberal era of
individualism and its primacy of markets and
prices, and heralds a swing of the political
pendulum back to state intervention.
 As Nobel Laureate economist Angus
Deaton has argued, “we now face a set of
challenges which we cannot duck”, which
threaten the fabric of society, providing a
“once-in-a-generation opportunity to tackle
the disadvantages faced by many that this
pandemic has so devastatingly exposed”.
More, not less, global cooperation
Globalisation has caused universal health and
economic emergencies. And yet, to address
it, we need more globalisation, not less. We
cannot stop a global pandemic without more
global politics.
 Nor can we stop climate change or any of the
other great threats by political deglobalisation.
 Economic deglobalisation would condemn
to continuing poverty the billions of people in
the world who are yet to benefit from the jobs,
ideas and opportunities that globalisation
brings. It would mean that citizens of poor
countries would not have access to the
international vaccines, solar power panels,
investment, exports, tourism and ideas that
are urgently needed to rebuild countries and
create a future of shared prosperity.
 If isolating ourselves and stopping
globalisation could insulate us from risk,
it may be a price worth paying. But far from
reducing risk, it will only increase it. What we
need is better managed and more regulated
and coordinated global flows, so the benefits
of connectivity can be shared and the risks
stopped.
 The greatest threat to our lives has
historically come from internal or external
conflicts. Now, the threat comes from forces
that are beyond the control of any one country
and which requires international cooperation,
rather than assertions of supremacy. It is in
every country’s self-interest to cooperate to
contain global threats. Similarly, it is in each
of our own self-interest to contribute to the
creation of more cohesive and stable societies.
 COVID-19 has tested us. By passing the
test, we will have proved we can also conquer
climate and other threats.
How to avoid the precipice
Nothing should be taken for granted. The
virus is not only changing our possibilities and
actions, but also the way we think, our dreams
and our imaginations. Every crisis creates an
opportunity, and it behoves us to explore the
silver linings. By highlighting the significance
of systemic risks, the pandemic has raised

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
64 65
By the United Nations Environment Programme
D
espite progress in key
environmental areas such
as clean water, sanitation,
clean energy, forest
management and waste,
countries are still living
unsustainably and are on course to miss the
environmental dimensions of the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development, according to
the Measuring Progress: Environment and
the SDGs report issued by the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) and the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD)
to coincide with the International Day for
Biological Diversity on 22 May 2021.
 The report found that some environmental
areas – such as biodiversity loss and climate
change – had continued to deteriorate.
 “We have still not embraced the rate of
change necessary to come in line with the
The report found that some environmental areas – such as biodiversity loss and
climate change – have continued to deteriorate.
PROGRESS MADE BUT WORLD SET TO MISS ENVIRONMENT-RELATED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – UN REPORT
“The report makes it clear that we are falling short, and,
in some cases, actually receding. The world cannot
sustain our rate of use and abuse forever, and it is
imperative that we accept the changes in lifestyles and
livelihoods necessary to achieve the 2030 goals.”
2030 Agenda,” said Elizabeth Maruma Mrema,
Executive Secretary of the CBD. “The report
makes it clear that we are falling short, and,
in some cases, actually receding. The world
cannot sustain our rate of use and abuse
forever, and it is imperative that we accept the
changes in lifestyles and livelihoods necessary
to achieve the 2030 goals.”
 The 2030 Agenda emanates from the
2015 UN Resolution that sets clear targets
for a sustainable future, with internationally
agreed goals in 17 areas such as poverty,
hunger, health, climate action, clean energy
and responsible consumption, among others.
The Measuring Progress report calls for
improved data and indicators to understand
how to ensure development progresses within
planetary boundaries.
 The report reviews data and information
about the environmental aspects of each of the
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
and their progress around the world. The
publication is based on global and regional
performances as assessed through the SDG
indicators that have a direct relation with
environmental issues.
 The report flagged an increase of available
data, but with the newly available data, an
increase in downward trends are among more
indicators when compared with a previous
progress report in 2019.  Environmental data
published in the first Measuring Progress
report showed that out of the 32% of
indicators with data (30 indicators), 74% (22
indicators) followed a positive trend, and 26%
(eight indicators) indicated little change or a
negative trend. In the 2021 report, out of the
42% of indicators with data (39 indicators),
67% (26 indicators) followed a positive trend
and 33% (13 indicators) showed little change
or a negative trend.
UNEP is the leading global voice on the
environment. It provides leadership and
encourages partnership in caring for the
environment by inspiring, informing and
enabling nations and peoples to improve their
quality of life without compromising that of
future generations.
 Opened for signature in 1992 at the Earth
Summit in Rio de Janeiro, and entering
into force in December 1993, the CBD is
an international treaty for the conservation
of biodiversity, the sustainable use of the
components of biodiversity and the equitable
sharing of the benefits derived from the use
of genetic resources. With 196 parties, the
CBD has near universal participation among
countries.
will support countries as they strengthen action
on the environmental dimensions with a view
to meeting the 2030 Agenda.”
 Strengthening environmental data
capacities is needed if policymakers are to
improve their understanding of the priority
actions required to “bend the curve” of continuing
environmental deterioration and advance the
chances of meeting the environmental SDGs.
Capacity-building is required in three areas: for
collection of data using international-standard
methodologies to ensure data comparability;
for data management to ensure open access
to data; and for data analysis where data are
used to better understand what happened,
why it happened, what may happen next and
how to respond, according to the report.
The interlinked nature of the SDGs means
that achieving one goal or target may
contribute to achieving other goals or targets,
or the pursuit of one objective may conflict
with the achievement of another. The report
uses an analytical approach, driven by
data, to test the relationship between SDG
indicators. The analysis revealed examples
where correlations were significant and
were consistent with intuition or published
evidence. For example, the report found that
Domestic Material Consumption related to
biomass extraction was negatively correlated
with species at risk of extinction.
 On the other hand, with regard to
biodiversity loss, the increasing extent
of protected areas and other protective
measures have not led to reductions in the
number of species under threat of extinction.
Without exception, the Aichi Biodiversity
Targets – a 10-year global strategy designed
to conserve biodiversity by 2020 – have
been missed, according to the Fifth Global
Biodiversity Outlook.
 The report identified a gap in the diversity
and use of environmental data and statistics
to inform government policy and decision-
making, particularly big environmental data
produced by remote sensing, in situ sensors
and Artificial Intelligence technologies, as
well as data collated through environmental-
economic accounting activities. Many existing
data products, statistics and indicators seem
to be under-utilised, and governments have
failed to place an emphasis on that data when
crafting policy.
 “Our comprehension of the environmental
dimension of the SDGs is lagging,” said
Jian Liu, Director of the Science Division
at UNEP. “Our limited capacities to collect,
disseminate and effectively use environmental
data have hindered our holistic understanding
of the environment and the effect on it of
socio-economic factors – we hope this report
Progress made but
world set to miss
environment-related
Sustainable Development Goals – UN report

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
66 67
AN ANCIENT SAN ROCK ART MURAL IN SOUTH AFRICA REVEALS NEW MEANING
An ancient San rock art mural in South
Africa reveals new meaning
By David M Witelson, PhD Candidate, University of the Witwatersrand (Wits); David Lewis-Williams, Emeritus Professor, Wits;
David Pearce, Associate Professor, Wits; and Sam Challis, Senior Research Scientist, Wits
We know from the ethnography that the San believe in a universe with spiritual realms
above and below the level on which people live. Decades of research have shown that
the rock art is deeply religious and situated conceptually in the same multilevel universe.
T
he indigenous San
communities of southern
Africa were originally
hunting and gathering
peoples. One of the
greatest testaments to San
history is the rock art found throughout
the subcontinent.
 The oldest rock art in southern Africa
is around 30 000 years old and is found
on painted stone slabs from the Apollo 11
rock shelter in Namibia. Where our study
took place – the Maloti-Drakensberg
mountain massif of South Africa and
Lesotho – rock paintings were made
from about 3 000 years ago right into the
1800s.
 For decades, people thought that one
guess about the art’s meaning was as
good as another. However, this ignored
the San themselves.
 We can deepen our understanding
if we try to view rock art in terms of San
shamanistic beliefs and experiences.
Advances in ethnography (literature
produced by anthropologists who work
with San people) help convey San
worldview to rock art researchers.
 By locating new sites – thousands are
still to be found – and revisiting known
ones in the light of developing insights,
we can go much further than guessing.
New insights from old images
We re-investigated such a site in the
uKhahlamba-Drakensberg mountains. It
was first described in the 1950s and is
recorded as RSA CHI1. At first glance,
AN ANCIENT SAN ROCK ART MURAL IN SOUTH AFRICA REVEALS NEW MEANING
the ceiling panel seems a confusing
collection of paintings of antelopes and
human figures, some of which are painted
on top of others, in shades of earthy reds,
yellow ochres and white.
 In 2009 and working under challenging
circumstances, South African artist
and author Stephen Townley Bassett
produced a documentary copy of the
ceiling panel. It shows the art’s beauty
and mystery.
When we looked at his copy, we found
that the significance of some images on
the site’s ceiling panel had been missed
by other researchers. This allowed us to
examine the meaning of these images
more closely.
 Importantly, our realisation was not a
technological or methodological advance.
Instead, it was a conceptual development
that occurred by turning our attention to a
well-known site and viewing it again in the
light of everything we have learned so far
about San rock art.
 Our re-investigation allowed us to
arrive at a new understanding of specific
elements of San belief.
Deeply religious art
Two sources of San ethnography are
especially important in rock art research
and our understanding of the ceiling
panel. In the 1870s, the German linguist,
Wilhelm Bleek, and his co-worker and
sister-in-law, Lucy Lloyd, interviewed
a series of |Xam San people, some
of whom had been brought from the
Northern Cape to Cape Town as convicts.
 Remarkably, Bleek and Lloyd recorded
over 12 000 pages of texts in the |Xam
language, which is no longer spoken, and
transliterated most of it line-by-line into
English. Much of this material remains
relevant to our understanding of the art.
 More recently, in the 20th century, a
number of anthropologists worked with
San groups in Namibia and Botswana with
a focus on a range of topics from hunting
and gathering to folklore and childcare.
The Kalahari ethnography complements
the Bleek and Lloyd archive.
 We know from the ethnography that
the San believe in a universe with spiritual
realms above and below the level on
which people live. Decades of research
have shown that the rock art is deeply
religious and situated conceptually in the
same multilevel universe.
Re-reading the ceiling
In San rock art, the eland is a connecting
element. It is the most commonly
depicted antelope in the uKhahlamba-
Drakensberg paintings. It features in
several San rituals and was believed to
be the creature with the most !gi: – the
|Xam word for the invisible essence that
lies at the heart of San belief and ritual.
 At RSA CHI1, there are many
depictions of eland, but we focussed on
the one with its head sharply raised.
rain and perform other tasks. The |Xam
called these out-of-body journeys |xãũ.
They obtained the power needed to
accomplish them by summoning potency
from strong things, such as the eland.
 The inter-realm nature of the line is
further evidenced by the three creatures
depicted moving along it. The two moving
upward are quadrupeds or four-legged
animals: one is non-specific and one has
a tail and human arms. These images
may depict the sort of bodily changes that
!gi:ten say they experience during out-of-
body journeys.
 The faint white creature moving down
the line was for us the climax of our work.
It is clearly birdlike (!gi:ten often speak
of flying). But closer inspection revealed
that, though faint, it has a rhebok antelope
head with two straight black horns, a
black nose and mouth.
 It also has two “wings” emanating from
its shoulders. In short, it is a hybrid form –
part bird and part buck. In addition, it has
two white lines coming out of the back of
its neck. It was from this spot that !gi:ten
expelled the sickness that they drew out
of the bodies of sick people.
 For many people, the detail and the
complexity of the images at this site come
as a surprise. Yet, they are typical. San
rock art ranks among the best in the world
if we consider its beauty, its intricacy and
the rich sources of explanation on which
we can draw.

This article was first published on The Conversation.
San rock art ranks among
the best in the world if
we consider its beauty,
its intricacy and the rich
sources of explanation on
which we can draw.
Depictions of this posture, though not
common, recur in other sites. The eland’s
raised head suggests that it is smelling
something, most probably rain. Both
smell and rain are supernaturally powerful
in San thought.
 The unique feature in this paintings
is, however, the way in which a line runs
up from an area of rough rock, breaking
at the eland’s front legs, and then on to
another area of rough rock. The painter,
or painters, must have depicted the eland
first and then added the line to develop
the significance of its raised head. We
argue that both the raised head and the
line emphasise contact with the spirit
realm, though in different ways.
 The way in which the painted line
emerges from and continues into areas
of rough rock is comparable to the way
in which numerous San images were
painted to give the impression that they
are entering and leaving the rock face via
cracks, steps and other inequalities. But
what lay behind the rock face?
Behind the rock face
We have noted already that the San
universe is divided into different realms.
Contact between these often interacting
realms is sometimes depicted in the art by
long lines that link images or sometimes
appear to pass through the rock face.
San shamans or medicine people (called
!gi:ten in |Xam) move along or climb
these “threads of light” as they journey
between realms to heal the sick, make

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
68
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  69
A
rchaeologist and biological
anthropologist, Keneiloe Molopyane,
is recognised as a trailblazer by the
prestigious National Geographic
Society.
 Molopyane was announced as part of the
National Geographic Society’s 2021 Emerging
Explorer cohort recently. “The Emerging
Explorer cohort comprises individuals breaking
through in their respective fields with big ideas,”
a statement from the National Geographic
Society explains. “They are nominated by the
National Geographic Society to become a part
Flying the FLAG
Wits archaeologist named 2021 National Geographic Explorer
astronaut. She completed her PhD in
Biological Anthropology at Wits in 2020, and
then became involved in the UW105 Cave
excavations, where she took on a leadership
role in the expedition. Molopyane has since
become the first postdoctoral research fellow
at the Wits Centre for Exploration of the
Deep Human Journey, which is headed up
by fellow Witsie and National Geographic
Explorer at Large, Professor Lee Berger.
Molopyane’s postdoctoral research will entail
deep exploration of the famous Gladysvale
Cave system, which is located at the Cradle of
Humankind World Heritage Site.
 Molopyane joins a group of 14 other
scientists, educators and storytellers in the
2021 Emerging Explorer cohort – a group
of people whose fields of expertise are
as diverse as culinary history and marine
biogeochemistry. “They’re amazing people,
phenomenal!” said Molopyane of her cohort. “I
feel proud to represent Africa, and hope to see
more Africans receiving the same recognition
in the coming years.”
www.wits.ac.za
Chauke joins Laureus Ambassador ranks
Chauke joins a prestigious group of South
Africans, including Banyana Banyana coach
Desiree Ellis and star Amanda Dlamini,
Olympic gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk
and Springboks Jean de Villiers, Schalk Burger
and Bryan Habana.
 Born in Limpopo, Chauke played basketball
and soccer before getting involved in netball
around the age of 10. She completed her
Postgraduate Diploma in Sports Management
at the Tshwane University of Technology and
went on to play for the Proteas for several
years.
 She retired from international netball in
2014 to focus on her coaching at the Nelson
Mandela Metropolitan University, where she
was a player-coach before being made head
coach. In 2016, she was appointed assistant
coach for the baby Proteas and is currently the
SPAR Proteas assistant coach.
 Chauke has made a tremendous impact
both on and off the court. She launched her
Netball Foundation at Mangangeni Primary
School in Malamulele. The foundation aims
D
umisani Chauke, assistant coach
of the South African netball team,
has been announced as the
latest Laureus Sport for Good
Foundation Ambassador.
of the global National Geographic Explorer
community of changemakers.”
 “It’s been overwhelming,” said Molopyane
about the honour of being named a National
Geographic Explorer. “Since I found out, I’ve
had little time to sit back and realise what it all
means. I think it’s still sinking in!”
 “Keneiloe was selected as a member of this
cohort because she exemplifies what it means
to be a National Geographic Explorer,” said
Alex Moen, Chief Explorer Engagement Officer
at the National Geographic Society. “Through
her work as an archaeologist and biological
anthropologist, and her focus on inspiring the
next generation, Keneiloe is advancing our
understanding of the world and all that's in it.”
 As an explorer, Molopyane has the
opportunity to work with National Geographic
to pursue new projects, collaborate with
other explorers, amplify her work to National
Geographic audiences, and do educational
outreach through the society. She will also
participate in public speaking and media
training.
 Molopyane joined the Rising Star Cave
research team in 2018 as a junior underground
Praise for local company
T
he Department of Small Business
Development has commended local
brand, Bathu, for being named as one
of the most admired African brands.
 “In our pursuit of intra-Africa trade, we are
excited that our fellow Africans in other parts
of the continent love our brands. This is in line
with our Small, Medium and Micro-Enterprises
Focussed Localisation Policy Framework and
Implementation Programme, supporting local
brands and buying local campaigns,” the
department said on Tuesday, 8 June 2021.
 Bathu has been named number 10 of this
year’s most admired African brands by the
Brand Africa 100: Africa’s Best Brands.
 Bathu, meaning shoes in Kasi slang, is a
proudly South African sneaker brand that was
founded in 2015 by Theo Baloyi, a qualified
accountant who quit his job for a fulfilling
journey as a manufacturer of a “global brand
in the making”.
 “The ranking is the most authoritative
survey and analysis on brands and underlying
businesses in Africa. The survey was
conducted between March and April
2021 and yielded over 80 000
brand mentions and over 3 500
unique brands.
 “The list boasts some
of the biggest corporates
across Africa such as MTN,
DStv, Shoprite, Vodacom
and Tiger Brands,” the
department said.
SAnews.gov.za
to empower young girls through netball
coaching, life skills training, as well as various
community-based programmes. She decided
to give back to her community by establishing
the foundation at her alma mater, where she
nurtured her talent. The foundation has been
a great success, reaching more than 500 girls
across Limpopo and Gauteng provinces.
 ‘I am thrilled and humbled by this amazing
gesture. This is a remarkable opportunity
and I understand the power of sport and
the immense impact it has on uplifting our
communities. It is an honour to be part of this
amazing organisation that continues to do
incredible work using sport as a tool for change
to help those in need,’ said Chauke.
 Laureus Ambassadors are a select group
of both current and retired sportsmen and
women who have achieved sporting greatness
or made significant contributions to the
sporting community during their careers. They
are recognised as role models and icons of
success and volunteer their services to support
the work of Laureus Sport for Good.
www.teamsa.co.za
A
lgoa Bay in the Eastern Cape was
declared a Whale Heritage Site
recently for its more than 90 species
of whales, dolphins and porpoises.
The World Cetacean Alliance in Brighton,
England, declared the city of Gqeberha in
which Algoa Bay is found, a whale heritage
site recently.
 The organisation’s mission is to protect
and conserve whales, dolphins and porpoises
through a global network of partners. The
accolade is a coup for the town as it further
Algoa Bay declared a Whale Heritage Site
bolsters tourism and officially reveals to
the world something many whale watchers
already knew – that it is a marine life gem.
 Algoa Bay has 90 species of whales,
dolphin and porpoises. The city is renowned
for its southern right, humpback, brydes and
killer whales. Whale-watching season in
Algoa Bay occurs in June through January
with, June, July, November and December
being peak observation periods.
 South Africa is one of the few countries
apart from Australia to have two whale
heritage sites. The other Whale Heritage site
is in Bluff, Durban.
 Lloyd Edwards of Raggy Charters and a
member of the Whale Heritage Site’s steering
committee, said that this accolade was huge
for Algoa Bay and translated to sustainable
tourism.
 “We have people from all over the world
coming to see our whales and dolphins. It’s
nice that they know there are organisations
showing off our beautiful marine life. The
diversity [of whales] is absolutely huge here
and this is one of the reasons they awarded
this certification to us,” said Edwards.
 “Becoming a Whale Heritage Site will
ensure that visitors to the Algoa Bay marine
area are contributing to destinations that
celebrate natural heritage, protect marine
wildlife and build a connection between
residents and sea life,” he said.
 Residents can now bask in the knowledge
that their town is to receive further recognition
on the tourism map.
www.thesouthafrican.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
70
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  71

Cape Town Tourism shines at International Film Awards
Brad Binder signs new racing deal until 2024
D
espite the doom and gloom during
a year when tourism is struggling,
Cape Town scooped several top
awards at the international film
awards.
 The prestigious International Tourism Film
Festival Africa (ITFFA) was recently held at
the Labia Theatre in Gardens, Cape Town.
The ceremony honoured and celebrated
some of the top tourism films in both Africa
and the International Category.
 “We are extremely delighted to have
walked away with five awards this year,” says
Enver Duminy, CEO of Cape Town Tourism.
S
outh African Brad Binder – who
won the 2020 MotoGP Rookie of
the Year Award – says he is “super,
super happy” to have signed a new
contract that will see him remain part of the
Red Bull KTM Factory Racing Team for the
next three years and take him to 10 Grand
Prix seasons in “orange” by the end of the
2024 MotoGP campaign.
 Clearly, Binder’s Story of a Legend (watch
on Showmax) continues. He recently posted
a new MotoGP milestone at the Gran Premio
D’Italia by equalling the highest top speed in
the history of the sport at 362.4 kmph during
FP3 around the iconic Mugello track.
 Of his new deal, the South African sports
star said: “I’m super, super happy to have
signed again for three more seasons with
KTM and it will take us up to 10 years. It’s
incredible to have been with this manufacturer
for such a long time now and we’ve always
had a good relationship. I’m extremely happy
in KTM colours, so it’s extra satisfying to have
a long contract signed up.
 “It’s cool to have that belief and support
from a company. It’s an honour. From here on,
we can focus on building ourselves towards
“Our team worked exceptionally hard on these
films to ensure that future visitors are inspired
to visit Cape Town once again. So, to receive
this recognition from such a prestigious film
festival is an absolute honour.”
 Cape Town Tourism’s That Homegrown
Feeling and We are Worth Waiting For!
claimed a gold and a silver award each, while
the ever-handy Pocket-friendly Cape Town
Challenge scooped silver in the destination
categories. Entries were evaluated by an
international jury made up of acclaimed
professionals in the audiovisual production,
marketing and tourism sectors.
The Table Bay Hotel at the V&A Waterfront
walked away with a gold and silver award for
their COVID-19 safety protocols film in the
accommodation categories.
 “We have missed many of our regular
guests at Cape Town’s best address during
the pandemic, and once lockdown eased
and allowed us to re-open, we put many
measures in place to welcome them back in
safety,” said The Table Bay General Manager,
Joanne Selby. “The video explains the hotel’s
COVID-19 protocols, which protect guests
and provide them with peace of mind during
their stay.”
www.goodthingsguy.com
the front. We are not terribly far away, and it
would be really nice to do something great
together. It’s exciting to see what these next
years will bring.”
 KTM Motorsports Director, Pit Beirer, said:
“This was a very easy contract for us to do
because we love Brad as a racer and what
he brings to the team, the factory and the
MotoGP class. He was also very enthusiastic
South Africa’s Triggerfish wins
Mifa Animation Industry Award at Annecy 2021
P
roudly South African company
Triggerfish has brought home
another award from the international
animation industry, adding to the
growing number earned by the company.
 The Annecy International Animation
Festival has awarded Triggerfish the Mifa
Animation Industry Award.
 “This is to highlight the pioneering role that
the company has played in animation in South
Africa, and Africa most widely,” says Véronique
Encrenaz, head of Mifa.
 Previous recipients include Christopher
Meledandri, founder of Illumination
(Despicable Me); the co-founders of Aardman,
Peter Lord and David Sproxton (Wallace &
Grommet); Marc Bonny, the creator of Gebeka
Films (My Life as a Courgette); Eric Beckman,
founder of GKIDS (Wolfwalkers); and Women
in Animation.
 Handing over the 2021 award to Triggerfish
CEO Stuart Forrest, Encrenaz celebrated the
studio’s animation, which she said had “already
earned a constellation of prizes”. Triggerfish’s
first two films, Adventures in Zambezia
and Khumba, sold nine million cinema
tickets globally. Triggerfish also produced
the upcoming 2021 feature Seal Team and
animated the Academy Award-nominated
Roald Dahl adaptation, Revolting Rhymes, as
well as much-loved Julia Donaldson and Axel
Scheffler adaptations such as the 2021 Annie
Awards winner, The Snail and the Whale, 2020
International Emmy winner, Zog, the BAFTA-
nominated and Annecy-winning, Stick Man,
and the Rose d’Or-winning The Highway Rat,
all produced by Magic Light Pictures.
 Encrenaz praised the way Triggerfish had
helped with “structuring an industry to give all
its professionals support”, playing key roles
in setting up crucial pillars of the animation
industry in South Africa, like the industry
association, AnimationSA; the showcase
and networking event, AnimationXchange;
and The Cape Town International Animation
Festival, originally called Kunjanimation. She
also pointed to their support of the Triggerfish
Academy, both through bursaries and in taking
on so many of their graduates.
 “I’m feeling so proud,” says Mike Buckland,
head of production at Triggerfish, after watching
Encrenaz’s video speech. “Sometimes you
need a speech and a rabbit to remind yourself
of how much you appreciate your partners and
your team. Thanks to everyone who’s helped
get us where we are.
 “We’ve been very fortunate to come
of age in a time when the world really is
looking for other voices,” says Forrest. “We
know animation has a unique ability to cross
boundaries, so we’re so excited to share the
new wave of groundbreaking African creatives
with the world.”
www.goodthingsguy.com
to make a big commitment to us and that says
a lot for our progression and our potential
in this championship. Sometimes you find
a racer and a mentality that really fit with
your own philosophy and the fact that Brad
has come all the way to the top with us in a
10-year period is a very special story. We’re
really proud to continue racing with him and to
keep setting new targets together."
www.sapeople.com
Cape Town’s Chinchilla named among world’s best rooftop bars
T
ime Out said that the Chinchilla
Rooftop Cafe & Bar in Camps Bay,
Cape Town, boasted spectacular
views that placed it among the world's
best. Time Out recently listed two South African
streets among the “Coolest in the World” – and
now they’ve taken a fancy to one of Cape
Town’s many top-class restaurants, naming
Chinchilla Rooftop Cafe & Bar in Camps Bay,
Cape Town, among their “Top 25 Best Rooftop
Bars in the World”.
 The popular travel website named Le
Perchoir in Paris at number one, but said that
coming in at number five, Chinchilla put bars
situated at the very top of some of the world’s
highest skyscrapers to shame.
 According to Time Out, Chinchilla’s position
between the famous Camps Bay beach and
iconic Table Mountain makes it a “laid back,
resort-chic” paradise “that’ll make you want to
while away an afternoon”.
 “Though this rooftop is only two stories up,
the views rival some of the tallest skyscrapers
in the world,” they said.
 Time Out also said that Chinchilla’s vast
array of cocktails and seafood dishes, set to
the tune of a medley of some of Cape Town’s
top DJs and performers, were well worthy of a
place in their Top 25.
www.thesouthafrican.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
72
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  73

South Africa’s Silo Hotel listed as third-best pool in the world
T
he Silo Hotel in Cape Town has
landed a top tree spot among the
best swimming pools globally. The
proudly South African hotel shares
Made By Africa, Loved By The World short films feature South African designer
Laduma Ngxokolo
F
acebook highlighted creatives in Africa
as part of the global celebrations for
Africa Month, and a South African
designer was featured in the short
films.
 As part of its celebration around Africa
Day and Month, Facebook launched a global
campaign, titled: Made by Africa, Loved by
the World – a series of short films unveiling
the stories of eight phenomenal creatives
and small business owners from across the
continent who are breaking ground across the
world.
 South African fashion designer Laduma
Ngxokolo was featured. His clothing brand,
“MaXhosa”, has been worn by global names
such as Beyonce and Alicia Keys, and most
recently had his designs featured in the film
Coming to America 2.
 Available to view on a dedicated Made by
Africa, Loved by the World microsite and the
official Facebook Africa page, the films provide
a glimpse into the global successes of African
creatives and businesses hailing from Kenya,
South Africa, Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire and Gabon.
The series aims to showcase, hero’ing and
honouring the people who are impacting the
continent and the world through their music,
arts and crafts.
 “At Facebook, we’re deeply invested in the
creative industry in Africa, and nowhere is it
more exciting to witness this vibrant creative
scene than here on the continent. These
people and businesses are changing the way
Africa is seen, not just in Africa, but around
the world, and are cementing our position
as leaders in innovation and the creative
industries. We know that Africa is the future,
and in honour of ‘Africa Day’ and the AU’s
2021 celebration of African ‘Arts Culture and
Heritage’, Made by Africa, Loved by the World
is our way of recognising just some of these
remarkable individuals who continue to inspire
the world,” said Nunu Ntshingila, Regional
Director, Facebook Africa.
www.goodthingsguy.com
South Africa's Lerai Rakoditsoe becomes first African to host Nickelodeon show
S
outh African social activist, Lerai
Rakoditsoe, is making history by
hosting NickMusic, a family-friendly
music show that plays audience
favourites and tracks that resonate with both
parents and children.
She is the first African to host a show on the
Nickelodeon platform. The daily weekday
show premiered on 17 May 2021 and features
music from across the African continent and
the world.
 The newly enlisted presenter is also a
change-maker who has previously worked with
youth and female empowerment groups. An
elated Rakoditsoe, whose latest career move
has made history, had this to say about being
a part of Nickelodeon's advancements on the
continent:
 "I am excited to be part of the Nickelodeon
Africa family and to be the first young
African host for the channel. Having grown
up watching the channel myself, I know
how important it is for young minds to see
someone like themselves on screen. Authentic
representation is really important and to see
myself on the channel is mind-blowing. I'm
extremely grateful and looking forward to
interacting with viewers across Africa and to
show off some of my NickMusic moves."
 Dillon Khan, VP for Nickelodeon at
ViacomCBS Networks Africa, says the
channel stands by its commitment to grow
local relevance and content for kids across
the African continent. "In our commitment to
always celebrate and recognise the power of
youth culture across Africa, we welcome Lerai
to the Nickelodeon Africa family and encourage
kids and parents to put on their dancing shoes
and get ready for NickMusic."
 The 18-year-old hails from Bassonia, south
of Johannesburg. A self-defined storyteller,
Rakoditsoe has been previously lauded for
giving women a voice on her social media
platforms.
www.creativityweek.africa
the podium with Italy and Western Australia. The
Silo Hotel at the V&A Waterfront is one of Cape
Town’s newest highlights in travel. The hotel is
built into an old grain silo, and the architecture
is unbelievable. The hotel is starting to earn
accolades around the world, and the latest is
for the third-best pool in the world as voted by
Big 7 Travel.
 Some 1.5 million people from 60 countries
take surveys for Big 7 Travel and vote for the
best travel accolades worldwide.
 The Silo Hotel pool boasts some incredible
views, which is why the pool has earned a top-
three spot.
 “Located in Cape Town on the Victoria
& Alfred Waterfront, the Silo Hotel occupies
the grain elevator portion of a historic grain
silo complex above the Zeitz Museum of
Contemporary Art Africa. The hotel bills itself
as ‘a celebration of art, style, architecture and
design’. Its spectacular rooftop pool has glass
sides and unrivalled views of Table Mountain
and Lion’s Head as well as the Atlantic Ocean
and city skyline. Sunsets from here are
mesmerising and memorable.” – Big 7 Travel.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Labia Theatre named among the best in the world
T
he Labia Theatre in Orange Street,
Gardens, Cape Town, has been
recognised on Time Out’s top 50
most beautiful cinemas in the world
list. It’s number 14 on the list.
According to Time Out, cinemagoers purchase
their tickets from an ornate ticketing booth (or
online). In recent years, the rich and famous
like John Cleese, Werner Herzog, Matt Damon
and Salma Hayek have popped by for a movie.
 According to its website, this gem was
opened by Princess Labia in May 1949 as a
theatre for the staging of live performances. For
the past four decades, it has been operating as
a cinema on the alternative circuit, appealing
mainly to the more discerning viewer who
enjoys its quality product and the charm of its
old-world ambience.
 Thanks to the assistance of Crowd Funding
and the Digital Gold Fund, the Labia was able
to convert to digital projection and boasts
superior picture and sound quality while
retaining its unique charm.
 In addition to the conversion to digital
projection, the Labia has been able to continue
slowly upgrading her facilities to make one's
experience an even more memorable one.
The top three are:
1. Pathé Tuschinski, Amsterdam
2. Le Grand Rex, Paris
3. Village East Cinema, New York.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Located beneath Table Mountain, South
Africa’s oldest indie cinema prides itself on
marrying modern tech with an olde-worlde
charm a world away from the gleaming modern
multiplex.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
74
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  75

University of Cape Town (UCT)
professor has been elected as
a Fellow of the Royal Society,
the world's oldest scientific
academy.
 William Bond, Emeritus Professor at
the university’s Department of Biological
Sciences, is the seventh South African to be
awarded the honour.
 The university said Bond was recognised
as a global authority on open ecosystems and
his research into the forces that shape global
vegetation, including wildfire, CO2 levels
and herbivores, is credited with transforming
the understanding of how these systems
materialised.
 Prof. Bond said his sister was the one who
inspired him to become an ecologist.
 “I was inspired to become an ecologist by
my older sister who read widely as a journalist
and always portrayed ecology as an important
field, but I only appreciated its scope and
scientific fascination decades later,” he said.
 He said he also looked up to other fellows
from the society and specifically Charles
Darwin.
 Prof. Bond said Darwin had always been
his hero because he was a wonderful guide to
travelling the world as a biologist and such an
astute observer of human society.
UCT Prof becomes seventh South African to be elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society
“Science has given us a way to test new human
ideas and that is something to be treasured.
Reason has been such a powerful tool for us
humans, but logic alone is not the answer. In
fact, science requires the imagination to make
connections that lead to new discoveries and
this creativity comes from all sorts of sources,
including art, music, myth and poetry. I think
that’s where South Africa and Africa have
much to offer: our perspective is unique and
valuable; it leads to new ways of seeing,” said
Prof. Bond.
 He said at this moment when
misinformation was a real danger and the
biomes that he had spent his career studying
were under threat, it was a great honour to be
recognised by an institution such as the Royal
Society, which promoted the role of science.
www.goodthngsguy.com
South African gin brand wins three awards at 2021 International Spirits Challenge
S
outh African gin brand Flowstone
Gin has earned three awards at the
2021 International Spirits Challenge
(ISC), boosting its accolades to a
total of 21.
The brand was launched four years ago
and has since earned a total of 21 awards,
including the three newest ones. The brand has
earned two silver awards and a bronze for the
Bushwillow, Snuffbox and Wild Cucumber Gin.
“We are honoured to be recognised again by
the International Spirits Challenge judging
panel”, says Flowstone Gin representative,
Mark French.
 “We always feel truly proud to not only be
representing our continent of Africa, but also
to wake up every morning and know that as
the sun rises, we are foraging and harvesting
in one of the most remarkable and beautiful
regions in the world, the Cradle of Humankind.”
 Of the ISC Challenge, Pieter de Bod, KWV
Master Distiller, says: “KWV regards ISC as
one of the most prestigious competitions of its
type.
 The rigorous judging process is second to
none and it is a remarkable achievement to
garner ISC trophies and medals as it signals
not only supreme quality but also consistent
dedication to the craft of creating world-class
spirits.”
www.goodthingsguy.com
Pretoria fourth-most “Instagrammable Neighbourhood” in the world
T
ravel-Lust recently released a list of
the most popular and most tagged
Instagrammable neighbourhoods
in the world. It compiled a list of
50 neighbourhoods from around the world
based on the number of hashtags the areas
garnered on Instagram – and Pretoria has
made the top 10.
 Instagram has over the years turned into
a key driver when it comes to travel trends,
with more than a third of the platform’s users
choosing to visit a destination after seeing it on
the app.
While travel is still curbed in most parts
of the world, Travel-Lust, in partnership
with Stokemont, “wanted to find out which
neighbourhoods around the world we typically
lust over most”.
 The teams at Travel-Lust and Stokemont
collected hundreds of the coolest most
picturesque places before narrowing it down to
a comprehensive list of 50.
 Then, the various neighbourhoods, cities
and locations were searched on Instagram to
find out how many hashtags each place had.
Pretoria was tagged more than 1.4 million times
on Instagram, preceded only by Wynwood in
Miami, Shinjuku in Tokyo, and Astoria in New
York.
 Other cities and neighbourhoods to make
it to the top 10 list include Silver Lake in Los
Angeles, Hongdae in Seoul, Champs-Elysees
in Paris, Chefchaouen in Northwest Morocco
and Surrey Hills in Sydney.
 While Pretoria came fourth, it was no match
for Wynwood in Miami, Florida, which had
more than 3.8 million photos tagged. Wynwood
is famous for its trendy street art and graffiti.
https://citizen.co.za/
South African soprano wins song prize at Cardiff Singer of the World Competition
I
n June 2021, South African soprano,
Masabane Cecilia Rangwanasha, won the
Song Prize at the prestigious BBC Cardiff
Singer of the World 2021.
 The 27-year-old rose to victory – against
finalists from Madagascar, Wales, South Korea
and Austria – with a mix of popular Lieder, a
South African song (in Xhosa) and spirituals.
“Masabane Cecilia Rangwanasha performed
with such assured technique and emotional
power that the jury was unanimous in naming
her the winner,” said John Gilhooly, Wigmore
Hall’s Artistic and Executive Director, and Chair
of the Judges.
 The South African singer’s prize
was £10 000, as well as many fantastic
opportunities to perform across the United
Kingdom and internationally.
 Rangwanasha impressed the judging panel
with her diverse performances of Schubert’s
Gretchen am Spinnrade – D118; BPJ
Tyamzashe’s song in Xhosa, Isithandwa Sam;
Lizst’s Die Lorelei – S273; and Betty Jackson
King’s Ride Up In The Chariot.
 “I wanted to show the audience that they
can enjoy both worlds: spirituals, the more
standard Lieder repertoire and also my
traditional South African Lieder,” she said.
 The Song Prize competition showcased
the voices of 14 of the BBC Cardiff Singer of
the World 2021 contestants in performances
of Lieder and art songs – partnered by
internationally-renowned pianists and took
place over four rounds.
 The event took place at St David’s Hall
in the Welsh capital, without an audience
in attendance, and in strict compliance with
COVID-19 regulations.
 According to a BBC press statement,
Rangwanasha started singing at school and
church at an early age. She completed her
postgraduate diploma at the University of Cape
Town, studying with Virginia Davids, and took a
BTech in Vocal Art (Performance) with Kiewiet
Pali at Tshwane University of Technology.
 In a few months’ time, she will join the
ensemble of Bern Staatsoper for two years.
www.sapeople.com
A

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
76
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  77

T
he 30 coolest streets have been
revealed, and 7th Street in Melville,
Johannesburg, and Main Road in
Kalk Bay are among the hippest.
 The 30 coolest streets in the world have
been named by the Time Out guide … and
7th Street, Melville, Johannesburg, has been
awarded the number 12 spot and Main Road,
Kalk Bay, Cape Town, number 22.
W
orld no 5 wheelchair tennis star
Kgothatso Montjane ousted
Momoko Ohtani 7-6(3) 4-6 6-4
to reach her first Wimbledon
final at the All England Lawn Tennis Club in
London on Friday, 9 July 2021.
 In a big-hitting and big-serving affair‚ it was
Montjane who created more opportunities to
edge past Japanese world no 6 Ohtani.
These two South African streets named among the coolest in the world Boulders Beach named one of the best beaches in the world
South Africa’s Kgothatso Montjane makes history reaching Wimbledon final
As part of their Time Out Index 2021 survey,
the publication asked more than 27 000
city dwellers around the world about the
best, most overrated and most undervalued
neighbourhoods in their home town.
 Then, armed with their opinions, they
went to the experts – Time Out editors and
contributing writers who know the city like
nobody else – and asked them to pinpoint the
one neighbourhood in their city with the biggest
buzz about it right now.
 This is the second time that the Time Out
Index has lauded 7th Street for its abundance
of pubs, clubs and restaurants, as well as its
strong sense of community.
 “There’s always a discernible buzz. And
that’s probably because pretty much the entire
street is filled with restaurants, pubs and
clubs,” the guide said.
 “The main road in suburban Kalk Bay is just
magical. Head past all the historic sea-facing
homes, just beyond the train station, and you’ll
find the dream spot for an afternoon mooch in
the sun. On a warm day, it’s habitual to start
with a swim at Dalebrook tidal pool, where
locals and visitors lay out towels on the rocks.”
 Topping the list is Smith Street that’s located
in Melbourne, Australia.
 Number two on the list is Barcelona’s
Passeig de Sant Joan.
 South Bank, London, best known for its
buzzing Thameside pathway, is the bronze
medalist.
www.goodthingsguy.com
B
oulders Beach in Simon’s Town
has landed 12th spot on the “Top
50 Best Beaches in the World” list
from Big 7 Travel.
 The famous Boulders Beach is having a
great PR year. First, the beach was the setting
for the Netflix series, Penguin Town; and now it
is topping international travel lists as one of the
best beaches globally.
It was a first Wimbledon final and a first Grand
Slam singles final for the Limpopo-born star‚
who faced top seed and world no 1 Diede de
Groot from the Netherlands in the final.
 The 35-year-old from Seshego became
the first African woman to play at Wimbledon
in 2018 after she was awarded a wild card
and reached the semifinals. “I am proud to
be blazing the trail for the next generation of
Now, Boulders Beach has earned a top spot on
the Big 7 Travel 50 Best Beaches in the World.
 “Using aggregated scores from previous
media results, official Blue Flag locations and
contributions from the Big 7 Travel editorial
team, these are the most amazing beaches to
visit this year.
 “It’s a diverse list, with black sandy shores,
city beaches and plenty of islands. From
Myanmar to Mauritius, consider this your
essential vacation guide.
 “Boulders Beach has something you won’t
find anywhere else in the world – you can get
close to African penguins, who nest by the
beach. Summer is prime time to visit Boulders,
and it’s when you’ll see the most penguin
action.
 “The cool, clear False Bay water and rock
pools are an added bonus.”
www.goodthingsguy.com
female athletes. There’s no limit to what you’re
capable of‚” said Montjane after receiving the
wild card in 2018.
 Montjane wrote her name in the history
books by becoming the first black South African
woman to reach the final at Wimbledon.
 “I am just so happy to have made my first-
ever Grand Slam singles final‚” Montjane said
after her match.
 President Cyril Ramaphosa tweeted a
special message to South Africa’s wheelchair
tennis star, KG, before the match:
 “YOU’VE ALREADY MADE US PROUD” –
PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA
 President Ramaphosa said: “Kgothatso
Montjane plays her first grand slam singles
final @Wimbledon today. @KGMontjane1 may
the serves be sound and the forehands flow as
you continue to fly the flag. You will have your
coach and the entire country with you. You’ve
already made us proud. Let’s ace this one!”
 The Dutch player wrapped up the match to
win 6-2‚ 6-2.
www.sowetanlive.co.za
Big 7 Travel has a list for everything and South
Africa is often featured on their Top 50 lists.
Cape Town was even voted onto one of the
best destinations of the decade list.
 Some 1.5 million people from 60 countries
take surveys and vote for the best travel
accolades around the world. Big 7 Media
shares several lists, which promote global
travel.
Garrick Higgo earns maiden win on PGA Tour
S
outh Africa's Garrick Higgo earned
his first victory on the PGA Tour in
just his second start on Sunday,
13 June 2021, edging late leader
Chesson Hadley to capture the Palmetto
Championship at Congaree.
 Higgo chased down Hadley on the back
nine, shooting a three-under 68 for the round
to finish at 11-under overall.
"I worked so hard with my coach on my short
game and my putting and I guess all this has
paid off," Higgo said.
 The tournament at Congaree filled in for
the Canadian Open, which was cancelled for
a second straight year because of the global
pandemic.
www.news24.com
Hadley blew a two-shot lead with bogeys on
his final three holes, finishing with a 75 at the
South Carolina golf course.
 The 22-year-old Higgo, of Johannesburg,
earned US$1.31 million (R18 million) in prize
money and an exemption on the tour until
2023.
 He is the second South Africa to win this
season, joining Branden Grace.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
78
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  79
Clifton is an affluent suburb of Cape Town. It is an exclusive residential area and is home to the most expensive real estate in South Africa, with
dwellings nestled on cliffs that have sweeping views of the Atlantic Ocean. Clifton lies just beyond Bantry Bay, between Sea Point and Camps Bay,
in one of the most superb settings against the backdrop of Table Mountain.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
80
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  81
Young female South African architects
reinvent Serpentine Pavilion in London
News of the choice of Counterspace was greeted with enthusiasm. Three women run
the interdisciplinary Johannesburg practice. They are the youngest architects to land
the Pavilion commission in its 20-year history .
T
he arrival in London of a new
Serpentine Pavilion is a design
diary highlight every year.
 Each commission sees a
new temporary garden building
– a pavilion – created by a
selected international architect. It is organised
by the Serpentine Galleries in Kensington
Gardens, Hyde Park, regularly attracting over
1.2 million visitors a year.
 In 2020, the prestigious Serpentine
Pavilion was awarded to South African
studio Counterspace. Soon afterwards, the
organisers decided to delay and extend
the commission over two years because of
the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, finally, it is
emerging into public life.
 News of the choice of Counterspace was
greeted with enthusiasm. Three women run
the interdisciplinary Johannesburg practice.
They are the youngest architects to land the
By Matthew Barac
Reader in Architecture, London Metropolitan University
Pavilion commission in its 20-year history. Past
designers include architectural superstars
such as Frank Gehry, Daniel Libeskind and
Peter Zumthor.
 The Serpentine Pavilion, a free-to-access
destination and venue for cultural gatherings,
has been seen as a vehicle for innovation. But,
detractors argue it has become a platform to
celebrate “starchitects” and host paparazzi-
friendly parties.
 Recent attempts to diversify the message
by selecting “up-and-coming” designers have
met with mixed reviews, but the choice of
Counterspace ups the ante. Here’s why.
Diverse alternatives
The Counterspace trio are not the first female
appointees. Celebrated British-Iraqi architect
Zaha Hadid designed the inaugural pavilion,
and women followed in 2009, 2015 and 2018.
But Counterspace represents a new, forward-
looking and timely attitude to inclusion,
diversity and creativity.
 Responding to the news, Lesley Lokko,
African Futures Institute director and RIBA
Annie Spink Award laureate, said:
 “As the world grapples with issues of race,
identity and inequity in the built environment,
this is an opportunity for a young African
practice to show that the imagination is the
most powerful tool for change.”
 Named for its belief that “every space
has an equal and opposite counter-space”,
Counterspace operates as a collaborative
studio in which a culture of questioning is
fundamental.
Who is Counterspace?
Founding partners Sumayya Vally, Sarah de
Villiers and Amina Kaskar established the
firm in their twenties. They want to change
architectural knowledge just as much as they
YOUNG FEMALE SOUTH AFRICAN ARCHITECTS REINVENT SERPENTINE PAVILION IN LONDON
The Counterspace trio are not the first female appointees. Celebrated British-Iraqi
architect Zaha Hadid designed the inaugural pavilion, and women followed in 2009,
2015 and 2018. But Counterspace represents a new, forward-looking and timely
attitude to inclusion, diversity and creativity.
want to make buildings. All three teach while
practising professionally.
 Projects in the Counterspace portfolio include
performances, installations, choreography and
curating, as well as research investigations and
building designs. Works include Folded Skies, a
large-scale mirror sculpture in Cape Town, and
the Brixton Mosque in Johannesburg, a scheme
to wrap an existing church reused as a mosque
in a new envelope that speaks the architectural
language of Islamic geometry.
 In contrast with the object-oriented
architecture of most pavilions to date,
Counterspace emphasises process. It wants to
steer and gather the Serpentine Pavilion into
being over time.
Time and the city
The act of building will extend beyond the
opening date, spreading across the summer
months. So, the pavilion you see in June may
change by the time you return for a second
look in September.
 This aligns with the Serpentine Gallery’s
view too. According to artistic director, Hans
Ulrich Obrist, the silver lining of the pandemic
is an “opportunity to take more time”. A range
of events and research activities have been
initiated, reframing the official opening date as
a milestone on the Pavilion’s journey, rather
than its destination.
 Eminent architect David Adjaye counselled
the pavilion’s trustees to: “Accept the slowness
reshaping society today and utilise it to develop
a deeper relationship with the architects.”
The Counterspace ethos will allow the pavilion
to accommodate difference, even conflict.
Vally, the only architect on the 2021 Time100
Next list, recently told me of her aspiration to
deliver a space meaningful to Londoners near
and far. It should reach out to those at the
periphery, and reach in to the city centre.
The pavilion
A lofty circular roof defines the extent of the
pavilion. It is both cosmological – a canopy
of stars – and childlike in its symbolism of
centrality, reminding us of the circle of play we
make by joining hands.
 Rising columns and wall fragments echo
other histories, borrowing bits of the city
and bringing them together in a bricolage
of recombined and recycled fragments.
Connections to other buildings, moments and
places across London are suggested.
 This architecture of visual quotations
recalls the postmodern theories of Robert
Venturi and Denise Scott Brown. The approach
superimposes memories represented by
design motifs. A cut and paste detail from a
Notting Hill Caribbean café that was a hub for
anti-racist activists in the 1960s might appear
on the pavilion alongside an element drawn
from the South London offices of the West
Indian Gazette, a major black newspaper
founded by activist Claudia Jones in 1958.
 This accumulation of elements and
influences is filtered through Vally’s artistic
processes of interpretation: “Any work that I
do is about how I am shaped by the people
that I work with, about ingesting as much as
I can from a place and its people and then
translating that into form.”
Architecture of invitation
To date, the Serpentine Pavilion has provided
a passive setting for people to meet. But
Counterspace aims to actively engage with
communities and sites of marginalised history
across London – to draw people in.
 This is an architecture of invitation. The
design does not attempt to deliver insights but
rather foster understanding, absorbing conflict
by providing a context for bringing differences
together.
 It captures something of an emergent
creative spirit – influenced but not defined by
wokeness and related cultural controversies –
in which the space to be flawed and unsure, to
be real, is claimed as a stage for belonging.
 This approach, which resonates with Robert
McCarter’s reformulation of “place-making as
resistance”, reminds us of the need to reclaim
our capacity for human relationships. The
pavilion invites us to rediscover public life and
meet again, after our long confinement, in a
space made for us and with us.
 The 2021 Serpentine Pavilion opened on
11 June 2021 in London.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
82
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  83
AN OSCAR FOR MY OCTOPUS TEACHER IS A BOOST FOR SOUTH AFRICAN FILM. BUT …
By Liani Maasdorp, Senior Lecturer in Screen Production and Film and Television Studies, University of Cape Town (UCT)
and Ian-Malcolm Rijsdijk, Senior Lecturer in Film and Television Studies, UCT
The story of a man and his relationship with an octopus in the cold, cold water off Cape
Town’s Peninsula triumphed over a number of heavy hitters. These included an exposé
of hospital deaths caused by corruption in the Romanian Government (
Collective) and the
Obama-produced story of the battle for disability rights in the United States (Crip Camp).
T
he Best Documentary Feature
gong for My Octopus Teacher
at this year’s Academy Awards
has been seen by many critics
as the type of underdog story
Oscar loves. The film, directed
by Pippa Erlich and James Reed, was – like
the other South African-themed documentary to
wow the Oscars, Searching for Sugarman – the
feel-good choice.
 The story of a man and his relationship with
an octopus in the cold, cold water off Cape
Town’s Peninsula triumphed over a number
An Oscar for My Octopus
T eacher is a boost for South
African film. But …
of heavy hitters. These included an exposé
of hospital deaths caused by corruption in the
Romanian Government (Collective) and the
Obama-produced story of the battle for disability
rights in the United States (Crip Camp).
 So, what carried the underdog to victory?
And what does this mean for filmmaking in
South Africa? Will this sensational viral hit
spawn “a trail of comparable works in its wake?”
 The answer to why it won lies in a series of
interconnected factors: the power of Netflix; the
zeitgeist of the global COVID-19 lockdown; the
Academy’s idiosyncratic nature when it comes
to voting; and the power of a well-made film with
a simple and life-affirming story.
 The answer to what impact it will have is
more complicated: we think it could lead to
wonderfully positive outcomes. But only, if
marginalised South Africans have agency and
power in front of and behind the cameras.
A tide of “the feels”
My Octopus Teacher follows documentary
filmmaker Craig Foster as he dives in the
ocean near his home on the southern shores
of the Cape Peninsula to observe, document,
AN OSCAR FOR MY OCTOPUS TEACHER IS A BOOST FOR SOUTH AFRICAN FILM. BUT …
My Octopus Teacher shows viewers that meaningful
engagements with the natural world can happen right
outside your door.
touch and be touched by a common octopus
(Octopus vulgaris). Foster is on a sabbatical
from documentary filmmaking after suffering
from burnout on his previous production. While
free-diving, he “meets” an octopus, and returns
to her every day, documenting most of her life
cycle, which spans about a year. He forms a
strong emotional attachment to her, and relates
the healing effect it has on him.
 The critical viewer can object to the
anthropomorphising of the octopus – the
applying of human attributes to an animal. And
for following the well-trodden path of privileged
white males documenting and representing the
exotic other.
 Even the surliest of critics were touched by
the story of man and octopus.
 But, as it shot up the rankings on Netflix,
it became clear that these flaws were not an
obstacle to millions of viewers around the world
who embraced the film wholeheartedly. Indeed,
while the film’s unabashed sentimentalism and
Foster’s somewhat self-indulgent narration
invited both parody and critique, even the
surliest of critics were carried away on a tide of
“the feels”.
Secrets of success
Key to the film’s success has been its word-of-
mouth emergence during lockdown in 2020. It
was the very definition of a viral sensation, the
perfect film for Netflix’s audience, which spiked
sharply because of COVID-19 restrictions in
many countries.
 The film’s introspective and understated
approach is also an important factor. Foster’s
short walk to the cold-water kelp forests is
the antithesis of Planet Earth’s globe-trotting
aesthetic, where each exotic, remote location
reveals the natural world at its most dramatic
and spectacular. My Octopus Teacher shows
viewers that meaningful engagements with the
natural world can happen right outside your
door.
 And, as the title proclaims, you don’t have to
be an expert to gain something wonderful from
the flora and fauna that you see every day, if you
look a little closer.
 In terms of the Oscar documentary outcome
this year, there was a perfect meeting point
of Netflix’s penchant for producing cinematic
and sensational documentaries, pandemic
audiences’ appetite for small, solitary stories
of individuals overcoming obstacles, and the
Academy’s preference for entertaining, escapist
documentaries. Think no further than previous
winners, 20 Feet from Stardom, Searching for
Sugarman or Free Solo.
What it means for the industry
There is an argument to be made that the
documentary’s win is important for film in South
Africa because it has focussed attention on a
local story and the quality of local productions.
It demonstrates that it’s possible – working from
home with a relatively low budget and a small
crew – to reach a massive global audience
from the tip of Africa and win one of the most
influential awards in the film world.
 But, there’s also a counter point to this: that
the film was only possible because Foster is a
well-established and well-resourced filmmaker
living on a particularly scenic part of the South
African coast.
 To say that My Octopus Teacher is a model
for all filmmakers in South Africa would ignore
the situation of emerging filmmakers living in
very different circumstances. This includes, for
example, black female filmmakers living far
from the filmmaking centres in South Africa.
They might have brilliant stories to tell and
amazing access to the people and places
involved. But, they are unlikely to have access
to a digital cinema camera. Or the time to devote
exclusively to a project of this kind.
 Nevertheless, there are likely to be positive
spinoffs from the win. For one, streaming
platforms’ interest in local documentary is
increasing.
 And interest from international platforms and
distributors in African film will undoubtedly spike
in the coming months.
 The hope is that this leads to more
international co-production treaties being
signed. There are currently only eight with South
Africa – with three more in the works – that allow
two production companies to claim tax rebates

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
84
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  85
AN OSCAR FOR MY OCTOPUS TEACHER IS A BOOST FOR SOUTH AFRICAN FILM. BUT …
i
Cape Town’s Great African Sea Forest has been crowned as one of “world’s new wonders”.
 This after seven “new” wonders of the world have been chosen by Bloomberg and the underwater enchanted Kelp Forest, 16 kilometres south
of Cape Town, ranks among them.
 The Kelp Forest is also known as the Great African Sea Forest. The forest’s profile was raised after its feature in the Academy Award-winning
documentary, My Octopus Teacher.
 My Octopus Teacher reached global plaudits after its release on Netflix in the year 2020. It tells the heartwarming story of how filmmaker Craig
Foster finds solace in the Kelp Forest and befriends an octopus where the two form a unique bond.
 Here are the full “seven new wonders of the world”:
• Sigiriya, Sri Lanka
• San Agustin, Colombia
• Kelp Forests, South Africa
• Top End Rock Art, Australia
• Nahanni, Canada
• Baalbek, Lebanon
• Antequera Dolmens, Spain.
www.goodthingsguy.com
for work done in their respective home countries,
making international co-productions more
desirable and profitable for both parties.
 And the benefits could extend to under-
resourced and emerging filmmakers, for whom
an international co-producer could foot the bill for
that expensive camera, and their time.
What needs to happen
There are dangers too.
 There’s a risk that an increased international
desire to see South African stories will result in
what is being called extractive filmmaking –
when international production companies come
in to film the country’s stories, bypassing its local
storytellers.
 What South Africa needs more than anything
in the film and television industries are stories
told by South Africans, not about them; told by
filmmakers coming from inside communities,
events and experiences, not by outsiders.
 My Octopus Teacher centres on a white
male experience. But the story is told from the
inside, by the very person it’s about. At a time
in global filmmaking history when “nothing
about us without us” is both a rallying cry and a
commissioning brief, one hopes that this will not
be the only personal story from South Africa that
makes it big on a global stage.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
Recognise the injustices of our past;
Honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land;
Respect those who have worked to build and develop our country; and
Believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity.
We therefore, through our freely elected representatives, adopt this
Constitution as the supreme law of the Republic so as to -
Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic
values, social justice and fundamental human rights;
Lay the foundations for a democratic and open society in which
government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally
protected by law;
Improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each
person; and
Build a united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place
as a sovereign state in the family of nations.
May God protect our people.
Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika. Morena boloka setjhaba sa heso.
God seёn Suid-Afrika. God bless South Africa.
Mudzimu fhatutshedza Afurika. Hosi katekisa Afrika.
(Preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa)
ONE CONSTITUTION , ONE NATION
WE, THE PEOPLE
OF SOUTH AFRICA,

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
86
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  87
REMEMBERING  ZIM NGqAWANA 10 YEARS ON, A SINGULAR FORCE IN SOUTH AFRICAN MUSIC
Committed to creativity as healing, Ngqawana left an extensive archive of published
and unpublished music. It is important, therefore, that 10 May 2021 also marked
the resurrection of the Zimology Institute, the project he initiated as a holding space
for his philosophy and music.
Z
imasile “Zim” Ngqawana died
unexpectedly and too soon
– on 10 May 2011 at the age
of 51 – leaving bereft a family
and a musical community that
spanned the globe.
 A flautist and saxophonist, composer and
teacher, Ngqawana was born in New Brighton
township in then Port Elizabeth, South Africa.
After a university music education, he became
known on the jazz and dance theatre scenes.
It was Ngqawana who was chosen to present
music – a 100-piece ensemble – at the
inauguration of President Nelson Mandela in
1994. He released his debut studio album,
San Song, in 1996. He would tour the world
with his band Ingoma and work with the likes
of Wynton Marsalis, Abdullah Ibrahim and
Hugh Masekela, in turn mentoring a new
generation of South African musicians. He later
established a school, the Zimology Institute.
 Ngqawana’s biography and his
achievements are well known.
 Recalling him on the 10th anniversary of
his death is to remember how a South African
jazz musician’s life and death, in a country that
generally treats the arts – and especially jazz –
as an inconvenience outside of Heritage Day,
could resonate so widely.
 Ngqawana’s sound – indebted to Xhosa
traditional musical, Western art music and
jazz – fills the silence that destruction leaves.
Committed to creativity as healing, Ngqawana’s
legacy continues long after his death.
A long line of saxophonists
In the mid-1800s, Belgium’s Adolphe Saxe
invented a strange instrument made of brass
but which, because of how it produced sound,
was classified as a woodwind instrument: the
saxophone.
 The hybrid instrument was adopted by jazz,
a genre that has always embraced hybridity.
For jazz scholar Chris Merz, the saxophone in
South African jazz became prominent from the
1930s, part of the American Swing craze.
 The 1950s saw the global decline of big
bands and rise of smaller jazz combos. So
began the reign of the alto saxophone in South
African jazz, despite some growling intrusions
from tenor saxophonists like Winston
Mankunku. This is why South African jazz can
speak of Ntemi Piliso, Kippie Moeketsi, Gwigwi
Mrwebi, Barney Rachabane, Duke Makasi,
Robbie Jansen and Dudu Pukwana, to name
but a few.
 It is also why it can speak of Zim Ngqawana.
A self-made brand
We may consider Ngqawana as a “self-made”
brand. Through his creations like Zimphonic
Suites, Vadzimu, Zimology, Aphorizims,
Zimphony Orchestra and the Zimology
Institute, he crafted his own public persona
in such a way that the culture industry had to
follow rather than shape it for him.
 Ngqawana’s making of the self was playful,
but not superficial. He also resisted the label
“jazz”, which he considered at once “too limiting
and too all-encompassing”. Confronting the
controversial view that there was no word
for “music” in African languages, he correctly
grasped that this was because, historically,
music in Africa was part of life’s sacred and
profane rituals. It was ingoma (the drums). In
his sleeve notes for the 1999 album, Ingoma,
he wrote:
 “Ingoma is a tour de force of committed
conscious kultur warriors, blowing a national
By Lindelwa Dalamba, Music Lecturer, University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) and Phillippa Yaa de Villiers, Poet and Lecturer in
Creative Writing, Wits
“The true purpose of great music should lead us to silence … from sound to silence.”
Remembering Zim Ngqawana 10 years on,
a singular force in South African music
REMEMBERING  ZIM NGqAWANA 10 YEARS ON, A SINGULAR FORCE IN SOUTH AFRICAN MUSIC
clarion to draw the concerned listener’s
attention to the fire that is engulfing our house
as a nation in a state of emergency.”
Antiquity and modernity
The call for commitment of the artist as cultural
worker and warrior, and for the recognition
that people’s lives could and must improve,
suggest why Ngqawana is important for
those who insist on the transformation of our
society and refuse to relegate African cultural
knowledge systems to the dustbin of the past.
 He wrote in 2001’s Zimphonic Suites, that
it’s all about “harmony between antiquity and
modernity”.
 For Ngqawana, this clarion should be
heard and acknowledged by all. This explains
his visibility on South African TV in the 1990s
(especially with the hit Qula Kwedini) and his
ubiquity on the airwaves and the live scene
and, most importantly, as a teacher.
Meeting Zim
I first met Ngqawana when I was invited to
Rhodes University, where he had studied. As
a student, I was privy to a jazz workshop he
held. It was an odd, discomforting jam session.
 Ngqawana made us play endless rounds of
the standard Stella by Starlight, pushing us to
the limits of our tolerance of its melody, chord
changes and prior interpretations. That’s the
point: to push through the given script until you
find yourself on the other side. That used to be
the point of jazz.
 But, my most important encounter was
when I ran into him at the University of
KwaZulu-Natal as a postgraduate student.
Avuncular as ever, he declared his pleasure
that those he had known as youngsters were
continuing to blow the clarion.
 When I said I was no longer blowing the
saxophone, now determined to be a jazz
musicologist, he promptly went to his office
and returned with a copy of every single one of
his albums, along with a copy of Amiri Baraka’s
Blues People: Negro Music in White America.
This generosity was an assertion of community,
possibly the only impulse that has assured
jazz’s endurance in this country. The gift is my
memento mori: Ngqawana’s mortality, beyond
death and vandalism, continues to inspire and
to teach.
The moment of annihilation
Indeed, in 2010, Ngqawana’s studio was
vandalised by scrap metal thieves. To gouge
the metal from the grand piano’s legs, it was
turned on its side. Windows, the toilet and
light fittings were broken. A saxophone was
smashed.
 At the moment of annihilation, perhaps,
our true voice is heard – we scream, sing,
respond. In improvising its hesitant future,
the artist’s voice is born; informed by all it
has ever been and seen. The sound bears
witness, exhaled into the impassive air.
 “This vandalism,” says Ngqawana in The
Exhibition of Vandalizim , a documentary
created by the African Noise Foundation,
“shows the extent of what has happened to
them … A vandalism of the soul, vandalism of
the heart, vandalism of the mind.”
 Committed to creativity as healing,
Ngqawana left an extensive archive of
published and unpublished music. It is
important, therefore, that 10 May 2021 also
marked the resurrection of the Zimology
Institute, the project he initiated as a holding
space for his philosophy and music.
Principles of poetics
His legacy is also one of poetics, the
principles – conscious or intuitive and
understood in retrospect – by which the artist
articulates their style. In the film, a stubbornly
resilient Ngqawana sits in the rubble left by
the vandals and plays a percussive solo on
the broken cistern. “We are condemned …
to move into the unknown,” he says. Moving
beyond the palpable pain in seeing his
instruments and studio destroyed, he insists
that the vandals are victims of the barbarism
of colonisation. He makes art of the carnage.
In filmmaker and writer Aryan Kaganof’s film
Legacy, he stresses Ngqawana’s interest in
the conscience.
 Conscience and consciousness formed
themselves through artistic discourse in
the 1970s and 1980s, where culture was
an inextricable aspect of, and outlet for,
the political in music. Ngqawana always
went beyond the political postures and
personalities of the day, cutting through to the
meaning of human events and their impact on
the experience of freedom.
For us, Ngqawana’s enduring lesson is how
art is able to contain, in its creation, its negation:
 “The true purpose of great music should
lead us to silence … from sound to silence.”
– Qula Kwedini.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
88
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  89
By Brent Lindeque
www.goodthingsguy.com
De Pontes is becoming known for her desire and aims to create films with diverse and
inclusive voices to tell female and African stories that impact the ways people think about
their approach to each other and the world.
South African female film director
answers Hollywood’s call
M
arian de Pontes is
on a mission to tell
inclusive and diverse
African female stories in
Hollywood.
The South African
native film director is taking the international
film festival circuit by storm with the mission
to tell impactful African female stories that are
inclusive and diverse.
 Currently residing in Los Angeles,
California, she is being mentored by Cassian
Elwes, producer of titles such as Dallas Buyers
Club and Mudbound, and shadowing television
director Tucker Gates (Homeland and Bates
Motel), all while working as a director in the
heart of Hollywood. This female director is
passionate about using the medium of film
to tell thought-provoking stories that create
the space for important conversations. De
Pontes most prominent film, Etana, a story
inspired by a New York Times article on
child soldiers in South Sudan, is her greatest
international triumph to date and has earned
her a finalist position at the renowned 2021
USA Film Festival and an official selection of
the Oscar-qualifying Cleveland International
Film Festival.
 De Pontes is a University of the
Witwatersrand Film Production graduate
who qualified top of her class and received a
fellowship to one of the top four film schools
in the world, Chapman University. While at
Chapman, she was selected as a Woman
of Chapman Scholar and was mentored by
renowned Hollywood producer Edward Saxon
(Silence of the Lambs). She is following in the
footsteps of other prominent South African
directors working in international mainstream
cinema, including Gavin Hood (Tsotsi,
Wolverine), Neil Blomkamp (District 9, Chappie)
and Jann Turner (TV’s Castle, Teen Wolf) with
the winning of the prestigious Horizon Award
in 2021, which partners with the Sundance
Institute, HBO and the Adrienne Shelly
Foundation to recognise female filmmakers.
 De Pontes is becoming known for her
desire and aims to create films with diverse
and inclusive voices to tell female and African
stories that impact the ways people think about
their approach to each other and the world.
Her ambition is to create films with diverse and
inclusive voices.
 “I love to make films about the most
inspiring people I know, badass women.”
 Born and raised by two highly scientific and
hardworking parents, science was an “every
day” for Marian, but art and film always snuck
their way in. Following an unpredictable career
in the arts is a very brave and intimidating
path, especially when you’re in South Africa
and a long way from the heart of filmmaking in
Hollywood.
 De Pontes owes her success to taking
calculated risks, not being easily deterred,
and her love for a challenge. She has politely
ignored the people who have tried to convince
her to take the easier road – “The best
response to someone who tries to obstruct
you is to smile sweetly and make your kick-ass
movie.”
 With Hollywood mentors backing this South
African director and with multiple awards and
nominations under her belt, it is easy to say
that her approach and perspective are paying
off.
 “The ability to believe in yourself and say, I
want to find out if I can actually do this or not.
These are the mindsets that really helped me.”
With science fiction as her genre of choice,
she is most interested and excited about the
evolution of the genre with real science for
the future. She is working on two science-
fiction features, one set in South Africa and
one set in space. When filming opens again in
Los Angeles, De Pontes will be prepping and
filming another short film towards the end of
the year.
 Keep a lookout and stay tuned for compelling
stories directed by a bold voice through the
powerful medium of film on the world-class
Hollywood stage – Marian de Pontes is just
getting started.
SOUTH AFRICAN FEMALE FILM DIRECTOR ANSWERS HOLLYWOOD’S CALL
“The ability to believe in yourself and say, I want to find out if I can actually do this or
not. These are the mindsets that really helped me.”
SOUTH AFRICAN FEMALE FILM DIRECTOR ANSWERS HOLLYWOOD’S CALL

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
90
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  91
By David Coplan
Professor Emeritus, Social Anthropology, University of the Witwatersrand
As a proper morena oa lefatse (king of the earth), Gabriel Mabi Thobejane revealed
the inner character of the people of the land in both musical expression and force of
personality. He entered so many of our lives in unique modalities that enriched our
worlds forever.
THE MAGNIFICENT MABI THOBEJANE, MASTER SOUTH AFRICAN DRUMMERTHE MAGNIFICENT MABI THOBEJANE, MASTER SOUTH AFRICAN DRUMMER
Winter chokes the highveld in Johannesburg,
South Africa, and takes from me, from our
entire culture, a mighty mountain. Gabriel Mabi
Segwagwa Thobejane, the diminutive tower
of rhythmic power, has left us: a man who did
not so much play the drums, but became The
Drum.
 He reportedly suffered a stroke at the age
of 74 and passed on on 3 June 2021.
 Even though he was both master and a
creator of South Africa’s indigenous sonic
archive, Mabi, as we all came to call him, was
also a showman and a collaborator. He could
and would play in support of almost anyone,
from jazz musicians to poets to mainstream
artists. He was artistically intimidated by
nothing and no one.
The young Gabriel
Mabi was raised in the township of Mamelodi
near the capital city, Pretoria, where he
absorbed the rural, neo-traditional, urban folk
and Sepedi jive drum and dance-song forms
that commingled in the streets and backyards.
 The young Gabriel had no calling to blow
his horn in a church and defied his mother who
insisted he become a priest. Her tendency
to break up his makeshift drum kits led him
to hang about the tanneries and artisanal
workshops, collecting materials he fashioned
into high-quality hand and mallet drums for
which he later became so famous. From
early on, Mabi pursued whatever “arrested”
(bopha!) him full force without equivocation
or compromise. And he was to serve a
life sentence in the total reinvention of the
highveld’s African percussion.
 This single-minded pursuit of a fading
musical patrimony from the ancestors ran in
the family. Gabriel’s uncle, Philip Thabane,
was already doing so on the electric guitar,
forming the Malombo Jazzmen with flautist
Abbey Cindi and afro-percussionist Julian
Bahula in the 1960s.
 Philip’s uncompromising indigenous
originality led to a break-up. Before the end
of the decade, Abbey, Julian, guitarist Lucky
Ranku and mbaqanga vocalist Hilda Tloubatla
had reformed as the Malombo Jazz Makers.
For Philip, only one young performer made the
grade: Gabriel Thobejane. They went on to
gain local success and world fame as the duo
Malombo.
The power of Malombo
Given the extent of his contribution and
influence, there is pitifully little written about
my former bandmate Mabi. In my book, In
Township Tonight! South Africa’s Black City
Music and Theatre, I wrote about Malombo:
 “This duo revolutionised progressive
indigenous music in South Africa from 1965 to
1977. Their first recording appeared in 1968,
and in 1971, Philip and Gabriel travelled to the
United States (US) where they appeared at
clubs and concerts around the country for two
years, playing with Miles Davis, Max Roach,
Pharoah Sanders, McCoy Tyner and other
first-rank jazz musicians … In 1973, (they)
returned home to perform for and learn from
their own people in the Transvaal townships.”
 Malombo’s 1976 album Pele Pele and
their 1977 appearance at the New York
Newport Jazz Festival continued to build their
international reputation. Their recordings, I
wrote in the book, could not hope to capture
the electricity and spellbinding virtuosity of
their live performances. I had the privilege of
performing with Malombo as a percussionist at
many of their South African appearances at the
time. I wrote:
 “Philip and Gabriel kept up a constant,
almost competitive musical dialogue on guitar,
kalimba (hand piano), flute, pennywhistle and
drums. The intensity of Philip’s guitar solos
and melodic poetic recitation, and Gabriel’s
percussive power and dynamics with drums,
dance, and ankle rattles kept black and white
concertgoers alike jumping and shouting on the
edges of their seats. Truly innovative creative
departures in black South African music tend
to create their own trends and offshoots, and
this was certainly true of Malombo.”
 Mainstream bands such as Sipho
Mabuse’s Harari and later Ray Phiri’s Stimela
were influenced by Malombo. As were the
“alternative” black consciousness ensembles
that often included spoken and sung poetry
that appeared in the late 1970s, such as
Dashiki, led by the soon-to-be-exiled poet
and artist Lefifi Tladi, Thabang Masemola’s
Batsumi, and the Malopoets, precursors of
rappers like Prophets of Da City.
A musical comrade
In some ways, Mabi Thobejane’s great initial
achievement was his ability to partner with the
introverted, crusty Philip Thabane for so long.
Quite the opposite, Mabi was unsurpassed as
a joyful jester and musical comrade. He loved
and accepted his unpredictable fellow musos. I
witnessed many a musical showdown between
Thabane and Thobejane on stage. After a
difficult return tour to the US in 1977, they went
their separate ways.
 By the 1990s, Mabi had started to find an
outlet for the sounds that had stayed with him
from the Bronx. He continued being involved in
some of the most exciting collaborations – with
bassist Sipho Gumede and saxophonist Khaya
Mahlangu, guitar master Madala Kunene, and
percussionists Amampondo. For a decade,
he toured and haunted the electronic, eclectic
studio sessions with United Kingdom act Juno
Reactor, who released the legendary acoustic/
electronic percussive remixes of Conga Fury.
Artist and showman
Mabi was as much a showman and a
performance event as he was a musician. He
not only built his own drums, but created his own
costumes of beads, antelope and cattle hides
and distinctive body paint. Characteristically,
he would perform stripped to the waist, his
face painted half chalk white and half charcoal
black, his compact brown torso covered in
white spots like a reverse-image leopard. His
intention was to conquer his musical world
as a drum guerrilla representing himself and
his deeper Tshwane origins, without hybridity,
without borrowing. And in that guise, what a
lender and a collaborator he turned out to be.
 As a proper morena oa lefatse (king of the
earth), Gabriel Mabi Thobejane revealed the
inner character of the people of the land in both
musical expression and force of personality.
He entered so many of our lives in unique
modalities that enriched our worlds forever.
 I cannot do better, before returning to
shocked silence at his passing, than to share
a new poem by the musical commentator
and scholar Sam Mathe. In For Gabriel Mabi
Segwagwa Thobejane, Mathe refers to Mabi as
segwagwa, the frog, the creature he physically
resembled that became Philip Thabane’s
musical praise name for him (See below).
This article first appeared on The Conversation.
MABI
THOBEJANE
master
SOUTH AFRICAN
DRUMMER
THE MAGNIFICENT
Segwagwa
The bullfrog that croaks in the streams
and lagoons inhabited by ancestral spirits
the elusive amphibian that greets springs
with the gravel voice and tone of a groaner
Segwagwa
The showman with deft magical hands
whose rumbles are like a distant thunder
The shaman who plays healing sounds
on baobab drums crafted by the gods
Segwagwa
In the south the cold season is upon us
the rains are gone, rivers have dried up
it is time for you to go into hibernation
farewell grandmaster of the percussion
Till we meet again when the rainclouds
gather.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
92
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  93
The idyllic Letaba Rest Camp is situated on a sweeping bend of the Letaba River, midway between the southern and northern boundaries of the
Kruger National Park. The name means “river of sand”, and the sandy riverbed is an excellent location for game viewing, particularly elephant,
which thrive in the area.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
94
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  95
By Puleng Segalo
Professor of Psychology, University of South Africa
She reminds us that it is not in loving our neighbour that we become better human
beings – the challenge before us is in learning to understand and perhaps one day to
love our enemy.
Learning from the story of pioneering
South African writer Sindiwe Magona
LEARNING FROM THE STORY OF PIONEERING SOUTH AFRICAN WRITER SINDIWE MAGONA
T
he African proverb, “Until the
lion can tell its own story, the
story of the hunt will always
glorify the hunter,” speaks to the
importance of telling one’s own
stories. For a long time, African
stories and realities were told by colonisers
in ways that painted a picture of Africa as
backward and uncivilised. It is for this reason,
that many literary scholars tell the story of
colonialism and apartheid through personal
autobiographies.
 One such scholar is Sindiwe Magona.
Magona has published over a dozen books for
adults, from critically acclaimed novels – like
Beauty’s Gift – to poems, plays and biographies.
She has written over 130 children’s books. But
it is her two autobiographies that drew my
attention as a psychology scholar. In these,
To My Children’s Children (1990) and Forced
to Grow (1992), Magona narrates her story
of memory, remembering, class, belonging,
home and identity.
 In a conversation with anthropologist
and activist Elaine Salo in 2009, Magona
said: “I experienced incredible anger about
others writing about us, I asked myself, ‘How
dare they write about you?’ I told myself that
shouldn’t stop me from writing about myself …
There is value in those like me writing about
our experiences, who did not study apartheid
but lived it.”
 So, I conducted a critical review of To My
Children’s Children, which covers the first 23
years of Magona’s life. My aim was to bring
attention to the importance of self-storying as
a form of protest, of knowing oneself and of
healing.
Who is Sindiwe Magona?
Magona was born in 1943 in the small town of
Gungululu, just outside an area called Mthatha,
in what was then known as the homeland of
Transkei, in the Eastern Cape of South Africa.
She was born five years before colonial Britain
handed over power to the Afrikaners. Apartheid
was officially introduced in 1948 and with it a
series of oppressive and racist laws such as
separate living areas and the Bantu education
system. It was within this context that Magona
grew up.
 In her work and her public talks, she tells of
poverty and of making a living as a domestic
worker while she schooled herself through
distance learning. She would go on to be a
teacher, mother, wife and community leader,
complete postgraduate studies and spend
two decades in civil service with the United
Nations.
 Magona’s work reflects the fact that she
grew up during apartheid, when black people
were treated as second-class citizens. As a
child, she had to navigate her way through a
LEARNING FROM THE STORY OF PIONEERING SOUTH AFRICAN WRITER SINDIWE MAGONA
Magona’s autobiographies offer us an avenue for
reflection, remembering, reimagining and dreaming.
Future generations, the children’s children, carry the
burden and responsibility of reshaping the country and
the world – and they can do this only if they know and
understand where they come from.
system that relegated her to the periphery and
treated black people as sub-human.
 However, she was one of the many
black women who found a way to resist this
oppressive system that aimed at dictating her
way of being in the world. According to literary
scholar and author Barbara Boswell, Magona is
one of the writers who transcend their received
identities as labourers and reproducers of
labour for the apartheid nation, to become
authors of their own lives and works.
 Magona refused to be muted and instead
spoke back through writing about her lived
experiences.
Home: here today, gone tomorrow
In her self-storying, Magona tells the narrative
of the violent ways in which the state apparatus
functioned to uproot people from their homes
and resettle them elsewhere. People’s homes
were literally here today and gone tomorrow.
 Home is a multilayered and multidimensional
concept that’s about more than just physical
space. Home for Magona cannot be divorced
from place, birthplace, belonging, deprivation,
alienation and also the mixing of cultures. In To
My Children’s Children she writes:
 “When I say place, that means less a
geographical locality and more a group of
people with whom I am connected and to
whom I belong. This is a given, a constant in
my life.”
 In telling her story, Magona weaves together
not only her personal lived reality but the
collective story of growing up under apartheid.
Her whole childhood involved bearing witness
to the inequalities and injustices that were
rampant in society. She reflects:
 “Who drove cars? Whites. Who wrote
books? Whites. Who owned shops? Whites.
Who lived in houses as distinct from shacks?
Whites. Whose children always wore shoes to
school? Who bought toys? Who bought butter?
Who had meals to sit at table for and tables to
sit at? Who had servants and who were never
servants?”
Resilience and hope
But Magona’s autobiography can also be
read as an attempt to connect this past to the
present and a possible future. Her self-storying
shows us that it is not just the suffering that can
be passed on from one generation to another,
but also resilience, love, compassion and
hope. As she articulates in her conversation
with Salo:
 “But we do need to fetch the good of
traditions that we left behind in our haste to be
‘civilized’. Now is the time for Africa to be truly
African through critical self-examination, self-
healing, to a wholeness that we can hold up.
If you respect yourself, then you will respect
others because you will see yourself in others.
Wholeness starts with the self and radiates
outwards. This self-respect is all about the
wholeness of healing and the wholeness of
being.”
 She reminds us that it is not in loving our
neighbour that we become better human
beings – the challenge before us is in learning
to understand and perhaps one day to love our
enemy.
 Magona’s autobiographies offer us
an avenue for reflection, remembering,
reimagining and dreaming. Future generations,
the children’s children, carry the burden and
responsibility of reshaping the country and the
world – and they can do this only if they know
and understand where they come from.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
96
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  97
High above the riverbanks, aligned with the floor level of the train, are the deck and pool,
offering a swimming experience unlike any other – with crocodiles, hippos, buffalos and
elephants greeting guests metres below.
Kruger Shalati: The Train on the Bridge
KRUGER SHALATI: THE TRAIN ON THE BRIDGE
O
ne of the most anticipated
and exciting new
offerings of the iconic
Kruger National Park is
Kruger Shalati – a perfect
combination of Africa’s
most breathtaking natural splendours with well-
deserved luxuries aboard a newly refurbished
train that’s reminiscent of African excellence.
Permanently stationed on the historically-
rich Selati Bridge above the Sabie River,
Kruger Shalati offers the most unique luxury
accommodation in a re-envisioned train, which
pays homage to the guests who explored the
park nearly 100 years ago while welcoming
new explorers from near and far. The train
celebrates where the first visits to the iconic
park were allowed in the early 1920s – the train
would park overnight in the exact spot where
Kruger Shalati is positioned.
 The train consists of 31 rooms, comprising
24 carriage rooms and seven bridge house
rooms, all of which provide a deeply visceral
experience, tailored for immersive comfort.
Whether you’re looking for a one-of-a-kind
adventure, an enthralling break or to simply
immerse yourself in earth’s finest creations,
KRUGER SHALATI: THE TRAIN ON THE BRIDGE
Kruger Shalati looks forward to welcoming you
on a journey of discovery with nature in the
most extraordinary way imaginable.
 The glass-walled, large train rooms allow for
infinite views along the length of the majestic
Sabie River, while the style of the train is a
celebration of African design in collaboration
with local art and crafting skills. High above the
riverbanks, aligned with the floor level of the
train, are the bespoke deck and pool, offering
a swimming experience unlike any other – with
crocodiles, hippos, buffalos and elephants
greeting guests metres below.
 The hotel offers guests a view of the
majestic Sabie River, and if you are lucky,
some animals that congregate on the banks of
the river. Head to the lounge carriage for some
incredible landscapes.
 The hotel is a birder’s dream location.
Guests of the hotel are noticing that some
rarely sighted birds are being spotted in and
around the Shalati area. This includes a
crowned eagle that one guest managed to see
from his room. Other birds often seen in the
area are dark capped bulbuls, tawny flanked
prinia, blue waxbills and the majestic bush
shrike.
 As the hotel is elevated, guests don’t even
have to leave their rooms to spot some game
as the animals flock near the river below. If
you do though, only a small group of people is
allowed to go out on game drives at a time with
strict COVID-19 prevention measures in place.
 Kruger Shalati has already been featured in
many prestigious best-of lists:
•	  The Best New Hotel Openings of 2021 –
Best New Hotels
•	  Best New Hotels Opening in Europe,
Middle East and Africa in 2021
•	  The Most Extraordinary New Hotels
Opening in 2021
•	  The 50 Best New Luxury Hotels to Visit
in 2021
•	  The New Lodges to Plan a Trip for as
South Africa Reopens
•	 T he 20 Best Places to Travel to in 2021:
Where to Go Next.
https://www.krugershalati.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
98
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 24 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  99
CAPE TOWN
WELCOMES YOU
Cape Town is also a proud recipient of a number of
international awards and accolades. In 2018, the city
was named one of the Top 10  Surf Cities in the world by
Surfer Magazine and crowned the number one city in
Africa for business tourism events by the International
Congress and Convention Association. Cape Town has
also been voted one of the Top 10 Cities in the World for
Travellers by Lonely Planet in 2017, Skytrax voted our
airport the Best in Africa and international real estate
company Savills ranked the Cape Town amongst the
world’s Top Tech Cities in a 2017 report.
VISIT
Cape Town is a must-visit destination. Cape Point,
Groot Constantia, Kirstenbosch, Robben Island, the
Table Mountain Cableway and the V&A Waterfront are
the iconic destinations that form the core of the true
Cape Town experience, and a trip to the city will not be
complete without a visit to each Big 6 attractions. Cape
Town also has the highest number of Blue Flag beaches
in South Africa. Seven of the city’s most popular beaches
and three Cape Town marinas have been recognised for
meeting the globally-acclaimed Blue Flag standards.
Beaches awarded the prestigious status include: Bikini
Beach, Mnandi, Strandfontein, Llandudno, Camps Bay,
Clifton 4th and Silwerstroom.
Cape Town has a number of world class museums that
offer up a treasure trove to the past. A number of these
museums are located in the city centre - all within
walking distance of each other - and together offer a view
as diverse and entertaining as the city itself.
The state-of-the-art Zeitz MOCAA – recently voted the
world’s top cultural destination – is the latest addition to
the Cape Town landscape and the first major museum
in Africa dedicated to contemporary art. The museum,
housed in the historic Grain Silo at the V&A Waterfront,
comprises over 9,500 square meters (102,000 square
feet) placing it among leading contemporary art
museums worldwide.
Zeitz MOCAA is spread over nine floors, of which 6,000
square meters (65,000 square feet) is dedicated to
exhibition space. Through an entire floor dedicated to
education, the museum aims to develop a new art-loving,
museum-going audience.
VISIT, LIVE, WORK, PLAY
& INVEST IN ONE OF THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL CITIES
ON EARTH
Cape Town has been voted the world’s Best City by
readers of the UK’s Telegraph for five consecutive years,
and there’s good reason why. We rank among the world’s
top destinations to visit and have all the attributes that
appeal to people looking for a great city in which to live,
work, play and invest.
Cape Town is a proudly inclusive city, welcoming all who
can join us in our vision to create a safe, sustainable,
vibrant urban environment for generations to come.
We are national leaders in business and have a thriving
knowledge economy; our skills market is growing and
the city offers numerous opportunities for work and
investment.
Cape Town is also home to over 200 companies in
the Information Technology (IT) and software industry
employing 7 500 people. Our large retailers have
extensive distribution channels into Africa opening up
the possibility of collaboration in moving products within
the continent. Cape Town also has a booming film and
media industry. It’s a sector that has created more than
35 000 jobs, contributing about US$ 92 million to the
economy in the last 3 years.
Cape Town is home to the only Hollywood style film
studio complex in Africa. Coupled with exceptionally
skilled film crew and post-production services, our
facilities are winning awards and attracting a growing
number of productions and stars to our shores. We also
act as a gateway to Africa with several companies running
their African operations from our city. The City of Cape
Town is making sure that our infrastructure investments
support key sectors, like the tech industry. An extensive
open source fibre optic network has been installed with
plans to extend the footprint over the forthcoming years.
PLAY
Cape Town hosts a wide range of local and international
events – from concerts and community-based events
to business conferences and international sports
tournaments. The city is a creative hub with arts, heritage
and cultural sites, activities and opportunities for all. We
have a lively arts and culture scene where creativity and
heritage are explored through theatre, live music, dance,
visual arts and more. Both day and night in Cape Town
offer you exciting cultural spaces to visit and events to
be a part of. Explore galleries and museums, cultural
precincts, attend signature events and explore our top
cultural venues.
INVEST
Cape Town is South Africa’s oldest city, its second-most
populous and an important contributor to national
employment. It is the legislative capital of South
Africa, the administrative and economic centre of the
Western Cape, and Africa’s third biggest economic hub.
The Mother City produces 9.8% of South Africa’s gross
domestic product (GDP) and accounts for more than
71% of the Western Cape’s economic activity (Global
Insight, 2016). The City has a diversified economy,
and the three biggest sectors are: finance, insurance,
property and business services. Cape Town is attracting
thinkers, innovators and design led entrepreneurs who
are helping to build an ecosystem that is strong in many
aspects of the knowledge economy. The city is the leader
on the African continent in the information technology
sector, with more tech start-ups than anywhere else on
the continent.
Cape Town has been chosen as the African headquarters
of innovation by companies such as Barclay Rise and
Thomson Reuters. The city is also the home to many
of South Africa and Africa’s financial institutions and,
coupled with the national headquarters of many legal
and consultancy firms, offer all the services needed to
underpin a global drive into Africa.
One of the fastest growing sectors in Cape Town’s
economy is the business process outsourcing (BPO)
sector, with many global call centres and online retailers
like Amazon choosing to conduct their operations from
our shores.
www.capetown.gov.za/visit
www.investcapetown.com
www.capetown.travel
LIVE
Cape Town has a terrific mixture of areas to live, from
vibrant city-living to quiet, leafy residential suburbs. The
city is known for its successful property market. In recent
years Cape Town’s property values and sales transactions
have exceeded Johannesburg’s and continue to attract
international property investors. The city and surrounds
is also home to four public universities, two globally
recognised business schools and a number of trustworthy
private and public institutions. Educational institutions
situated in the city include the University of Cape Town,
University of the Western Cape and the Cape Town
University of Technology. Cape Town is also fast becoming
the most digitally connected city in Africa. The City’s
public Wi-Fi service and other digital inclusion projects
are part of a broader Digital City Strategy, which aims
to make Cape Town the most digitally connected city in
Africa. Other elements of the strategy include investment
in digital infrastructure, digital business initiatives, and a
focus on digital government.
WORK
Cape Town’s favourable lifestyle is one of the major
reasons why many of the top wealth and asset
management firms choose to base themselves here.
The city is home to an impressive group of wealth
managers, including the likes of Allan Gray, Old Mutual,
Foord, Coronation, Sanlam, Prescient and Sygnia. Most
of these companies’ staff and top executives live in
the city. Top employment sectors in Cape Town include
community and social services, the financial and trade
sectors. The financial services sector employed the largest
number of skilled individuals in 2015 (274 087) and the
manufacturing sector employed the largest number of
semi-skilled and unskilled individuals (111 213).

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 24
100
LIFESTYLE |
The Stellenbosch wine routes have a coordinated network of more than 150 wineries, each offering a unique cellar-door experience for the
wine-lover and tourist. There are five sub-routes and each has its own characteristics in terms of prominent wine styles, climate and geographical
location. As part of the Cape Winelands, the Stellenbosch wine routes are part of the six most popular tourist attractions in South Africa and are also
connected to the global Great Wine Capitals Network.