seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue17.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue17.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue17.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

In the spirit of Ubuntu

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 17
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
South Africa was elected to the Non-Permanent
Seat in the United Nations Security Council
(UNSC) on 8 June 2018 and started its tenure
on 1 January 2019.
This is South Africa’s third term on the UNSC,
having previously served from 2007 to 2008 and
2011 to 2012.
The Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said South Africa’s
tenure in the UNSC would be dedicated to the
legacy of President Nelson Mandela and his
commitment to peace.
“South Africa will use its tenure in the
Security Council to promote the maintenance
of international peace and security through
advocating for the peaceful settlement of
disputes and inclusive dialogue. We will
continue to enhance close cooperation between
the UNSC and other regional and subregional
organisations.
“South Africa’s diplomatic efforts over the
past two decades include conflict resolution,
prevention, mediation, peacekeeping and
peacebuilding. We firmly believe that, while
we must strengthen the tools at the Security
Council’s disposal in addressing conflicts as
they arise, the focus should be on preventative
diplomacy and on addressing the root causes of
conflicts.”
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger - burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Advertising
Nthabiseng Makuwa - MakuwaN@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0388
Distribution
Olwethu Koli - kolio@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0006
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Yandisa Monakali, Yolande Snyman, Katlholo Maifadi, SA Tourism, Fanus
Schoonees, GCIS, UN Photo, AFI David Tlale, Slum Dwellers International, Jonathan Gill, Flickr,
Magnus Haaland, University of Bergen, Kabelo Kesebonye, UNESCO, University of Pretoria and
Stacy Revere
Acknowledgements
President Cyril Ramaphosa; Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation;
Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, Minister of Communications; Luwellyn Landers, Deputy Minister
of International Relations and Cooperation; Reginah Mhaule, Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation; Asit K Biswas, Distinguished Visiting Professor, Lee Kuan Yew School
of Public Policy, National University of Singapore and Cecilia Tortajada, Senior Research Fellow,
Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore; Abdul-Jalilu Ateku,

PhD Candidate in International Relations, University of Nottingham; Amukelani Chauke, South
African Government News Agency; Raymond Suttner, Emeritus Professor, University of South
Africa and Visiting Professor and Strategic Adviser in the Faculty of Humanities, University of
Johannesburg; Tal Zalmanovich, Postdoctoral fellow at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
in the European Research Council-funded project APARTHEID-STOPS, Hebrew University
of Jerusalem; Kavilan Moodley, Associate Professor, University of KwaZulu-Natal; and Wits
University

Advertisers
South African Airways, Standard Bank, Naspers, Cipla, ICBC, Brand South Africa, South African
National Space Agency, World Food Programme and City of Cape Town

To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation,
e-mail address and delivery address in the body to kolio@dirco.gov.za
Back-issue enquiries
kolio@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO)
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084
Republic of South Africa
www.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za@theDIRCOza thedircoza DIRCOza
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
Issue 17A better South Africa * A better Africa * A better world
Tel: +27 12 351 1000
9 772304 669009
ISSN  2304-669 4

4
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
Ushering in a
second decade
of BRICS
strategic
cooperation
36
14
contents
Diplomacy
In every issue
UBUNTU magazine – issue 17
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6  Letter from the Minister
10 Publisher’s note
14 South Africa has what it takes to compete on the world stage
18  UN must become a representative and truly democratic
global parliament of the people
22   Why South Africa is on a path of economic renewal
24   A referendum in Western Sahara will give the people a clear
choice
28   SA reaches out to neighbours in distress
30  Africa rising – African Union’s landmark resolutions place the
continent on the path to rapid growth and stability
34 Solidifying Africa’s ties with China
36   Ushering in a second decade of BRICS strategic cooperation
48  IORA pursuing peace, stability and development
54   Digital revolution should respond to the needs of the
developing world
58   Towards achieving a world free from the threat posed by
nuclear weapons
64  Travel smart with DIRCO
68   KofiAnnan:Amanwhopaidhisduestoglobalpeaceand
security
70  Jockin Arputham: The gentle giant will be missed
72  DIRCO hosts diplomatic fun fair
South Africa has
what it takes to
compete on the
world stage

5
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
AAD: A national
asset94
Lifestyle
126
122
Africa meets Asia in
spectacular fashion fusion
Exploring the Wild Flower
Route of the Northern Cape
76  Liberation heritage: Dumisani Kumalo
82   How the new Silk Road will cement China as major trading partner
for Africa
84  Africa 4.0: Preparing for the Fourth Industrial Revolution
86  Jobs and skills in the Fourth Industrial Revolution
88  Revisiting Nelson Mandela’s roots: a photographic exploration
90   How resistance led to London’s Selous Street becoming Mandela
Street
92   Newtelescopechasesthemysteriesofradioflashesanddark
energy
94  AAD: A national asset
98  Barberton Makhonjwa Mountains declared a World Heritage Site
100  Multimedia graphic design – 73 000 years ago
104 #a good story to tell
110  FlyingtheSAflag
LIFESTYLE
Feature
120  Africa’s leading art fair celebrates 11 years
122  Africa meets Asia in spectacular fashion show
124  Famous Otter hike turns 50
126  Exploring the Wild Flower Route of the Northern Cape

6
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
Letter from the Minister
S
outh Africa needs to
develop a foreign policy
stance that strengthens the
bridging role it has played
over the last 25 years
between the different global
blocs, premised on a largely independent
foreign policy orientation.
This will allow South Africa to contribute to
strengthening and democratising the global
multilateral system so that it fosters peace,
stability, prosperity, equality and human
rights for all people, especially in Africa, and
work towards establishing equality between
countries. Equality, democracy and prosperity
within countries cannot be established without
working towards equality between countries.
We are guided by our domestic priorities and
aspirations in the formulation and consequent
implementation of an independent and
democratic foreign policy, which is premised
on the values of our Constitution. Our
aspirations, which are encapsulated in the
National Development Plan Vision 2030,
provide an overarching vision that guides
our foreign policy imperatives and our
international relations programme. Our work
reflects the importance of improving the
living conditions of our fellow Africans on the
continent as well as creating conditions for
humanfulfilmentacrosstheglobe.
Our purview of work is increasingly
challenging, considering the turmoil in the
international environment, which has in the
recent past witnessed efforts to entrench
protectionism and elitism in the era of the
Fourth Industrial Revolution. While the said
era has its advantages, we cannot shy away
from the reality that it has demonstrated the
potential to further alienate the majority of the
poor worldwide and for that reason we must
proactively manage its effects.
We can only leverage its opportunities and
avert compounding the persistent economic
hardships by investing in our people and
ensuring that Africa is not left behind as the
digital era further evolves.
We must also be conscious that our
continent and the region will progress towards
improved manufacturing capacities and
reduce its dependence on exporting raw

7
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
materials only to buy furnished products later
at higher prices. This perpetuation of neo-
colonial relations undermines our continental
and regional efforts to bolster prosperity
through product value and increased intra-
Africa trade.
We must double our efforts to counter the
effects of an unpredictable and economically
sluggish environment. We remain cognisant
of the fact that the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) is our
immediate and biggest trade partner and
that our future is intertwined with that of the
16 member states comprising this regional
economic community and the continent.
SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in
two tracks, political and security integration
and economic integration, and to this effect,
has developed economic and strategic
blueprints to advance regional economic
integration.
In a similar vein, our objectives of regional
integration within SADC are also intertwined
with our objectives of the African Union (AU)
and enhancing the African Agenda. The
adoption and launch of the Continental Free
Trade Area (CFTA), as well as the signing
of the Kigali Declaration on 21 March 2017,
took us a step closer towards regional and
continentally integrated economy. Similarly,
the SADC-East African Community-
Common Market for Eastern and Southern
Africa Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA),
anchored in market integration, infrastructure
development and industrial development, saw
the TFTA Agreement signed by 22 out of 26
member countries, including South Africa,
signing on 7 July 2017 in Kampala, Uganda.
Overall, the SADC region remains
politically stable although we shall continue
to impress on partners and work with them
to consolidate democracy and peace for
development.
Our partnerships and formations within the
broader South-South relations are historic and
remain important. In furthering our economic
imperatives, the world’s leading emerging
economies, namely Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa (BRICS) continued
to be the leading sources of foreign direct
investment (FDI) among emerging investor
countries,asflowsfromthesefiveeconomies
rose from US$7billion in 2000 to US$145
billion in 2012, accounting for 10% of the
world total.
The BRICS formation has become a
formidable force not only in geopolitical
affairs. The establishment of the BRICS
New Development Bank, which was first
deliberated by BRICS leaders at the Fifth
BRICS Summit, held in South Africa in 2013,
is a clear indication that BRICS countries
arefirmintheirdeterminationtoreformthe
global financial architecture. Reform of the
global financial infrastructure was agreed
to by all countries in Agenda 2030, and it is
appropriate that South Africa, through BRICS,
continues to keep this important aspect of the
Sustainable Development Goals on the global
agenda.
We assumed Chairship of BRICS for the
second time since being invited to join in 2011
on 1 January 2018 and concluded this role
on 31 December 2018. We sought to build on
the legacy of our hosting of the 2013 Summit
and quicken the pace towards strengthening
relations between BRICS and the African
continent. The seminal 10th BRICS Summit
was chaired by President Cyril Ramaphosa at
the Sandton International Convention Centre
in Gauteng from 25 to 27 July 2018 under
the theme: “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration
for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity
in the 4th Industrial Revolution”, and saw
the participation of all BRICS leaders.
The summit was also attended by leaders
invited for the BRICS-Plus Dialogue, namely
Argentina, Jamaica and Turkey and heads
of state and government invited for the
Africa Outreach Dialogue, namely Rwanda,
Uganda, Togo, Gabon, Madagascar, Senegal,
Namibia, Angola, Malawi, Mozambique,
Zambia, Zimbabwe and Botswana, as well as
representatives from Lesotho, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, Egypt, Tanzania and
Seychelles.
The summit was an occasion for the BRICS
leaders to re-emphasise the importance
of global collaboration by all countries on
the basis of equality within a reformed and
democratised global public order, including
a more democratic United Nations (UN),
inclusive of the UN Security Council (SC) and
related multilateral institutions.
With regard to the Indian Ocean Rim
Association (IORA), South Africa assumed the
Chair of the association for the period October
2017 until October 2019. This provides us with
an opportunity to build on the Jakarta Summit
outcomes and propel the implementation
of the IORA Action Plan (2017 – 2021).
Importantly, we focussed and will continue
to do so, on enhancing the institutional
mechanisms necessary to advance important
priorities for South Africa and the region.
These include but are not limited to women’s
economic empowerment, maritime safety and
security, the Blue Economy and tourism.
Our bilateral relations with countries in the
region, the continent, the Global South and
the North continue to grow and strengthen
withinthedifficulteconomicclimate.
Our bilateral relations have served as
a key driver of Economic Diplomacy and
yielded tangible dividends for the South
African economy. The southern African region
continues to be of great importance to South
Africa, not only politically, but more so in the
area of trade and economic development.
In 2016, South Africa’s trade with the region
amounted to R336 billion, which is estimated
to be more that 70% of the total trade with
Africa.
Furthermore, Western Europe accounted
for about 25% of South Africa’s total global
trade in 2016 and remained South Africa’s
largest source of FDI. Both the United States
of America and Canada continue to be
important trade and investment partners for
South Africa.
Our strengthened relations with Asia and
the Middle East countries are evidenced by
the increase in our diplomatic presence in
the region. Comparatively, we had a mere
six missions in 1994 and 10 years later,
South Africa had diplomatic relations with all
57 countries in the region, with 32 missions.
Consequently, in 1994, South Africa’s total
trade in the region stood at approximately
R5 billion for the Middle East and R40 billon
for Asia. In 2014, this figure grew rapidly
and substantially to R760 billion for Asia and
R116 billion for the Middle East.
We are therefore committed to advance
this objective during our tenure at the UNSC
as a non-permanent member from 2019 to
2020. We intend to use our third tenure to
promote the maintenance of international
peace and security through advocating for
the peaceful settlement of disputes and
inclusive dialogue and to advocate for close
cooperation between the UNSC and other
regional and subregional organisations.
We will continue to provide information
aboutourworkandthebenefitsourcountry
derive from our international engagements
in platforms such as this publication. Work
that we proudly continue to undertake for the
betterment of humanity.
We will continue to ensure that South
Africa strengthens its role in peace-building,
democratisation and the creation of an
equitable world.
Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation

8
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

9
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Bloubergstrand is situated in close proximity of Cape Town along the shores of Table Bay in South Africa. It is located about
25 km to the north of the Cape Town city centre. Bloubergstrand with its white sandy beaches offers a spectacular view of both
Table Mountain and Cape Town. Robben Island, where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned, can also be seen from the beach.

10
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
Publisher’s note | Let’s talk foreign policy...
S
outh Africa’s foreign policy
has been topical of late,
following the country’s
successful campaign
to return to the United
Nations Security Council
(UNSC) in the non-permanent category for an
unprecedented third time.
The country’s voting patterns at the
UN Human Rights Council and some UN
committees, as well as how we respond to
various geopolitical issues, have sparked
interesting debates.
As we enter 2019, it is worth looking back
at what South African diplomats under the
leadership of Minister Lindiwe Sisulu have
been up to.
The UNSC is one of the six principal
organs of the UN and is charged with the
maintenance of international peace and
security as well as accepting new members
and approving any changes to its charter. Its
powers include peacekeeping operations,
international sanctions and military action
through SC resolutions. It is the only UN body
that issues binding resolutions to member
states. From 1 January 2019, South Africa
occupies a seat on the council for two years.
This is not a small achievement.
In 2018, South Africa chaired the
16-member Southern African Development
Community (SADC), co-chaired with China
the Forum for China-Africa Cooperation,
continued to chair the 21-member Indian
Ocean Rim Association (IORA) and chaired
the Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa
(BRICS) formation.
Our role as Chair of IORA is important for a
number of reasons. Firstly, the membership of
the association accounts for nearly one-third
of the world’s population (2,6 billion). Half of
the world’s trade travels through this region.
In addition, the Indian Ocean has a variety
of natural resources that are vital to the well-
being of those living in the area, to safe trade
and environmental stability.
Secondly, the Second International Indian
Ocean Expedition that will continue to 2020,
coincides with South Africa’s tenure as Chair
of IORA. To this end, South Africa will use its
role to facilitate the participation of African
countries in the ocean research expedition, to
use the expedition to build human capacity in
South Africa and on the African continent, and
facilitate the establishment of African regional
training and research institutions as part of
our legacy as Chair of the association.
The last SADC Summit we hosted took
a number of historic decisions. One such
decision was the admission of the Union of
Comoros as the 16th member of the regional
body. The fact that more states want to join
SADCisanaffirmationoftheattractionand
effectiveness of our regional organisation. We
remainfirminourpursuitofpeaceandstability
as well as shared growth and prosperity.
South Africa continues to play a key role in
the African Union (AU) and the UN.
In the AU, we are involved as part of
continental efforts to “silence the guns” and
bring about lasting peace and prosperity
inconflictsituationssuchasthoseinSouth
Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo
and Libya.
In the UN, we still look back with satisfaction
at our tenure as Chair of the International
Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA) Board of
Governors. The IAEA is a multilateral body
with the responsibility to promote the safe and
secure use of nuclear science and technology
for peace, security and development.
South Africa presided over the IAEA Board
of Governors at a time when the global peace
and security environment was characterised
by heightened tensions and uncertainties.
South Africa is highly regarded by the IAEA
because of the development of its peaceful
nuclear programme. Through the power plant
at Koeberg, the country generates 5% of its
electricity supply from nuclear.
South Africa is the second-largest
producer of medical isotopes, which are used
in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
Minister Sisulu has instructed that one of
the barometers to be used to gauge the
effectiveness of our foreign policy endeavours
is how we contribute to our government’s apex
strategy, the National Development Plan. The
plan sets out a long-term vision that seeks
to address the challenges of unemployment,
poverty and inequality, and puts South Africa
on a path to long-term development and
prosperity.
The southern African region remains the
primary destination for South African exports.
At the last count, the region accounted for
more than R336 billion, or 77,17%, of our total
African trade.
In 1994, trade between South Africa and
the rest of Africa stood at R11,4 billon. As at
December 2016, South Africa’s total trade
with Africa stood at R436 billion.
According to the report, Africa Economic
Outlook 2017: Entrepreneurship and
Industrialisation, published by the African
Development Bank and the UN Development
Programme, “the continent has made steady
progress in governance and management
of public institutions and resources, and
continues to do so”.
“Relative to the past, Africa now enjoys
better ratings on democratic governance and
the rule of law, which are critical to nation-
building and policy consensus.”
Furthermore, the report notes: “Over the
past two decades, the value of trade between
Africa and the world has quadrupled. Today,
the continent’s trading partners are also
more geographically diverse, and regional
cooperation is building momentum.”
“This is because African countries have
adopted more open policies, invested in
infrastructure and continued to pursue
regional integration.”
President Cyril Ramaphosa and Minister
Sisulu always remind us that the future of
South Africa is inextricably linked to that of our
region and continent.
For that reason, South African diplomats
will continue championing the African Agenda
through all the international forums that we
lead, and look forward to more successes,
working towards realising our vision of “a
better South Africa, a better Africa and a
better world”.
Wefirmlybelievethatwehavesucceeded
during the course of 2018 to elevate our
country’s stature internationally while
remaining true to our principles.
@ClaysonMonyela

11
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

Africa never stops. The world’s second largest
continent has plenty of room for growth. There’s
an energy here you won’t find anywhere else. As
host to many of the world’s growing economies,
we’re proudly playing our part in the global arena.
Let’s take our continent forward, together.
standardbank.com/neverstop
Authorised Financial services and registered credit provider (NCRCP15).
The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited (Reg. No. 1962/000738/06). Moving Forward is a trademark of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited. SBSA 243920-10 /16
243920 Quiet A3.indd   1 2016/10/07   1:27 PM

Africa never stops. The world’s second largest
continent has plenty of room for growth. There’s
an energy here you won’t find anywhere else. As
host to many of the world’s growing economies,
we’re proudly playing our part in the global arena.
Let’s take our continent forward, together.
standardbank.com/neverstop
Authorised Financial services and registered credit provider (NCRCP15).
The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited (Reg. No. 1962/000738/06). Moving Forward is a trademark of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited. SBSA 243920-10 /16
243920 Quiet A3.indd   1 2016/10/07   1:27 PM

South Africa has what it takes
to compete on the world stage
W
e strive to advance
our national interest
in a global landscape
that is in a constant
state of flux, where
political, social and
economic forces beyond our control have a
direct bearing on our efforts.
Like any other country, South Africa is not
immune to tremors in the global economy or
to shifts in geopolitics.
In the midst of global uncertainty, we are
fortunate to have at the helm of our diplomatic
service an experienced and capable corps of
people who can be relied upon to steadfastly
promote our progressive international agenda.
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
In all our efforts, we are guided by the National
Development Plan 2030, which provides
a roadmap for unleashing the energies of
our citizens, growing an inclusive economy,
building capabilities and enhancing the ability
of the State.
At the same time, we wholly identify
with the aspirations of Agenda 2063 of the
African Union and its vision of “an integrated,
prosperous and peaceful Africa, driven by
its own citizens and representing a dynamic
force in the international arena”.
South Africa and its fortunes are
inextricably linked to those of the continent.
In accepting the Nobel Peace Prize in
1961, Inkosi Albert Luthuli said:
“I accept this also as an honour not only to
South Africa, but for the whole continent of
Africa, to this continent, Mother Africa!”
It was the people of Africa who extended
the hand of friendship and solidarity to us
during the dark days of apartheid, and today it
is African countries who are our valued allies
and trade partners.
When Africa falters, South Africa falters.
And when Africa prospers, South Africa
prospers.
We are guided by the words of Kwame
Nkrumah, who said:
“Divided we are weak, united, Africa could
become one of the greatest forces for good
in the world.”
The year 2018 marked the centenaries
of two titans of the liberation struggle, Tata
Nelson Mandela and Mama Albertina Sisulu.
As we reflected on their respective
legacies, we were ever mindful of the
sacrificestheyandmanyothersmadeforour
liberation.
We carry a weighty responsibility to ensure
thattheirsacrificeswerenotinvain,andto
realise their vision of a South Africa free from
discrimination, inequality and want.

In the midst of global uncertainty, we are fortunate to have
at the helm of our diplomatic service an experienced
and capable corps of people who can be relied upon to
steadfastly promote our progressive international agenda
.
14
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

Although we have registered notable
progress in the 25 years since democracy,
we still grapple with the triple challenges of
unemployment, poverty and inequality.
To address these challenges, government
is on an ambitious drive to grow our economy,
anchored in cooperation between government,
business, labour and civil society.
We want to get our economy going
following a period of stagnant growth. We
want to regain public and investor trust, and
thereby unlock private capital and promote
investment.
Above all, we want to see our people
securedignified,meaningfulemploymentto
ensure that all SouthAfricans benefit from
economic growth.
We recently held the South Africa
Investment Conference in Johannesburg, a
critical intervention to showcase opportunities
for both domestic and foreign investors.
The conference was an integral part
of government’s ambitious drive to raise
US$100billioninnewinvestmentoverfive
years, stimulate economic growth and create
jobs.
The conference discussed opportunities
in sectors like agriculture, minerals,
manufacturing, transportation, energy, water,
information and communications technology,
tourismandfilm.
The Heads of Mission Conference,
which was held from 21 to 25 October 2018,
took place at an important moment as our
diplomats must play a pivotal role in driving
the message that South Africa is open for
business.
It is our missions abroad that are leading our
Economic Diplomacy, who need to ensure that
the outcomes of the conference are conveyed
around the world, and who are responsible
for assisting the expansion of trade and
investment links with partner countries.
The Investment Conference followed the
successful Jobs Summit held earlier in October
2018, where more than 70 interventions were
identifiedtoprotectexistingjobsandcreate
new ones.
The framework agreement adopted
by social partners at the summit focusses
on empowering women and the youth,
stimulating demand in the local economy and
expanding our export capacity.
The summit agreed that the “Buy South
Africa” should be significantly upscaled
and that we should take advantage of new
opportunities in Africa through regional and
continental integration.
As part of our investment-friendly
approach, we are focussing on addressing
structural weaknesses in the economy,
rebuildinginvestorconfidence,restoringgood
governance in public institutions and creating
a supportive environment for those who
want to invest and those who have invested
already.
South Africa’s advanced infrastructure
has long been one of the country’s strongest
attractions for investors.
As part of the work that we must
undertake now to stimulate growth and
create employment, we are consolidating our
R400-billion Medium Term Expenditure
Framework infrastructure budget into an
Infrastructure Fund.
This will be used to address infrastructure
gaps in areas such as roads, water
infrastructure, schools, human settlements
and public transport.
Additional resources from development
financeinstitutions,multilateraldevelopment
banks and private lenders and investors will
also be leveraged through this fund.
Over the past few months, we have
already achieved a number of milestones in
our quest for improved investment, resulting
inrenewedlevelsofbusinessconfidence.
For example, we have initiated changes to
our visa regime to attract more skilled workers
and tourists.
Processes to restore confidence in our
institutions and organisations of governance
are underway.
We are investigating and prosecuting
cases of corruption.
The governance and management of key
state-owned enterprises are being overhauled
toensuretheyareheldaccountabletofulfil
their economic and developmental mandates.
Our ability to generate foreign investment
in our country depends in large measure on
the image of our country abroad, which is one
of the core responsibilities of our diplomats.
We must acknowledge that there are some
negative perceptions about South Africa, its
government and its economy that we need to
work to correct. It is important that we should
not overlook the challenges we have, nor
deny that we are emerging from a period of
difficulty.
15
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

However, it is clear that our democracy
is resilient, that we are making progress
in addressing the immediate challenges
we face, and that we are establishing a
foundation for lasting growth and fundamental
transformation.
We should locate the South African
narrative within the context of a continent that
is on the rise.
It is estimated that over the next 20 years
the working population of Africa will increase
to more than a billion.
Ours is a young, active and increasingly
connected continent.
With favourable demographics, high
productivity potential and ideal positioning
as a springboard into the rest of Africa, our
country is an attractive destination for growth-
seeking investors.
Ranked 61 out of 147 in the World Economic
Forum’s latest Global Competitiveness
Report and as the continent’s second-biggest
economy, South Africa offers investors the
stability of a well-regulated and developed
country, an effective legal environment, cost
competitiveness and reliable infrastructure.
Our banking system is solid, well
capitalised, well-regulated and internationally
respected.
There is no doubt that we have a very solid
base to work from.
A new future that is highly connected and
interdependent
The advent of globalisation heralded a
new future that is highly connected and
interdependent.
This means that there are a vast set of
issues – from climate change to cross-border
crime – that cannot be address by individual
countries acting alone.
It is only through collective effort,
supported by multilateral institutions like the
United Nations (UN), that we have been able
to address some of our world’s most complex
challenges.
As we witness the rise of extreme
nationalism in some parts of the world, and
neo-isolationism takes root in others, it is
clear that the need for an effective, rules-
based multilateral system is greater than ever.
The very essence of the UN Charter is
respect for international law and the principles
of international justice as we seek, as a
global collective, to live in harmony, maintain
international peace and security and respect
the human rights of all.
Good governance, democracy, respect for
human rights, justice and the rule of law are
also among the aspirations of Agenda 2063.
If we are to safeguard our security and
prosperity, if we are to silence the guns in
Africa, we have to work to consolidate rather
than erode the international rule of law.
It is international law that informs the
exercise and limits of the use of state power,
andthatenforcescooperationoverconflict,
and collaboration over confrontation.
The challenge before us is to transform
global politics from a power-based hierarchy
to a rules-based international system where
each country can advance and protect its
national interest without provoking animosity.
The centrality of the UN to South Africa’s
foreign engagement is based both on a
strong belief in collective and equitable global
governance, but also because of the UN’s
roleinthefightagainstapartheid.
South Africa enthusiastically embraces its
responsibilities as an active member of the
UN.
This is particularly the case as South Africa
entered the UN Security Council (SC) as a
non-permanent member from 2019.
Our election provides us with an
opportunity to align the work of the UN with
that of the African Union (AU) and to promote
the positions we have adopted when we
campaigned for this non-permanent seat,
including the priorities of Agenda 2063.
South Africa’s third term on the UNSC
should build on President Nelson Mandela’s
legacy of working towards a peaceful, just and
prosperous world.
We must honour his legacy by serving as
a bridge-builder, bringing together divergent
perspectives and seeking peaceful resolution
ofanyconflict.
We must continue to campaign for the
reform of the UNSC.
The current formation is antiquated,
unrepresentative and prejudicial to developing
and smaller states.
The UNSC remains the primary
international organ mandated to promote
international peace and security. It is essential
that it remains true to its mandate and moves
beyond the paralysis brought on by the
geopolitical interests of a few member states.
The only way this can happen is if world
leaders, including those who represent the
permanent members of the UNSC, are bold
and courageous and commit to enlarging the
council urgently.
Failure to do so will encourage states
to start acting unilaterally, with disastrous
consequences for all.
As South Africa, we need to pay particular
attention to the intersection of the work of the
UNSC and that of the Peace and Security
Council of the AU.
South Africa’s third term on the UNSC should build
on President Nelson Mandela’s legacy of working
towards a peaceful, just and prosperous world. We
must honour his legacy by serving as a bridge-builder,
bringing together divergent perspectives and seeking
peaceful resolution of any conflict
.
16
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | SOUTH AFRICA HAS WHAT IT TAKES TO COMPETE ON THE WORLD STAGE

We should encourage greater cooperation
and collaboration to ensure a common
approachtoendingconflictonthecontinent.
We will need to continue to be engaged
with the ongoing challenges in Lesotho, the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Madagascar,
Zimbabwe, South Sudan, Somalia, Central
African Republic, Mali and Libya.
The AU has established and consolidated
a comprehensive peace and security
architecture, which is based on a paradigm
that recognises Preventive Diplomacy
as central to eradicating conflicts on our
continent.
We will use our term in the UNSC to
highlight and advance the cause of the
Palestinian and Saharawi peoples.
Peace and security in Africa are
inextricably linked to its economic and social
development.
The most effective way to ensure lasting
stability is to achieve economic growth that
benefitsallofAfrica’speople.
At the same time, peace and stability are
a necessary condition for faster and more
inclusive growth.
South Africa played an active role in
remodelling the Organisation of African
UnityintotheAU,specificallywiththeaim
of strengthening Africa’s ability to resolve
conflict.
We will continue to support the institutional
reforms of the AU to ensure that it retains
its agility in an ever-changing and complex
world.
We are resolute that such reforms should
conform to the AU Constitutive Act and not
betray the Pan-African philosophy of the
founding leaders.
Multilateral relations
On multilateral level, 2018 marked the 10th
anniversary of the G20 being held at summit
level. The meeting took place in the context
of uncertainty, increased unilateralism and
protectionism by some G20 members.
South Africa will continue to use its
membership of the G20 to promote inclusive
growth and development and support the
Argentinian Presidency in its efforts towards
consensus-building and fair and sustainable
development.
In July 2018, we successfully hosted
the Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa (BRICS) countries, establishing
the foundation for a decade of greater
cooperation, development and progress.
In addition to reaffirming our shared
commitment to multilateralism and the
interests of the countries of the global
South, we developed an ambitious agenda
for cooperation on the Fourth Industrial
Revolution and the opportunities provided by
rapid advances in technology.
We are also taking the Forum on China-
Africa Cooperation towards a strategic
partnership,inwhichChinawillbeasignificant
partner in developing African infrastructure
and promoting regional integration.
South Africa is chairing the Indian Ocean
Rim Association, which we view as the pre-
eminent regional organisation linking Africa,
the Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
We will focus on uniting the diverse
countries that constitute the association
behind an agenda of peace, stability and
sustainable development.
An ever-changing and complex global
environment
We exist in an ever-changing and complex
global environment.
As a country, as a brand, as a trade
partner and as an investment destination,
South Africa has what it takes to compete on
the world stage.
It is up to us to make sure we take full
advantage of the opportunities that exist for
thebenefitofallourpeople.
Wehaveemergedfromadifficultdecade,
whichhasdampenedconfidenceandslowed
our progress.
As we undertake the critical task of renewal
and rebuilding, we draw strength from the
knowledge that we stand on the shoulders of
giants like Tata Mandela and Mama Sisulu.
Their examples have shown us that we
can triumph over adversity. They taught us
that the race will never be won until all South
Africans are able to lead lives of dignity, in
peace and in prosperity.
Their lives provide ample evidence of
the limitless potential of the human spirit to
persevere and to prevail.
Working together as South Africans – and
in concert with partners across the globe –
we can be certain that we will indeed build a
better Africa and a better world.
17
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SOUTH AFRICA HAS WHAT IT TAKES TO COMPETE ON THE WORLD STAGE | DIPLOMACY

I
n September 2018, I had the honour
to address the United Nations (UN)
General Assembly for the first time
as President of the Republic of South
Africa.
It was nearly a quarter of a century
since the founding father of our democracy,
President Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela stood at
that podium to declare that:
“The millions across our globe who stand
expectant at the gates of hope look to this
organisation [the UN], to bring them peace,
to bring them life, to bring them a life worth
living.”
As we marked the centenary of the birth of
this great global leader, we were bound to ask
whether the UN has met the needs and the
expectations of the millions who stand at the
gates of hope.
We are bound to ask what contribution
the UN has made to a more peaceful, more
prosperous and more equal world.
More importantly, we are called upon to ask
– as we did during the Nelson Mandela Peace
Summit – what the UN and the assembled
global leadership must do to secure lasting
peace, reconciliation and stability across the
globe.
The UN must become a
representative and truly democratic
global parliament of the people
The Government and the people of South
Africa express its the deep gratitude to the
international community for convening the
Peace Summit to honour the memory of
Nelson Mandela and advance his legacy.
We applaud the Political Declaration of the
Summit, which recognises the period from
2019 to 2028 as the Nelson Mandela Decade
of Peace.
Thisreflectsanewandsincerecommitment
by the world’s leaders to comprehensively
advance peace and security and resolve all
conflictsandwars.
To succeed in giving effect to this
commitment, the UN must become what
billions of people across the world want it to
be – a representative and truly democratic
global parliament of the people.
Throughout its seven decades, the UN
has been a source of hope for the oppressed,
exploited and poor.
During the dark days of colonialism and
apartheid, we drew strength, inspiration and
encouragement from the UN and its Charter
in our quest for self-determination.
With the support of the UN, we were able
25 years ago to bring an end to the nightmare
of apartheid.
Nelson Mandela led us to freedom and
gave us the great opportunity to transform our
country.
We have embarked on a journey of
transformation, and work is in progress to
deal with the ugly legacy of apartheid.
Madiba’s vision continues to guide us as
we seek to improve the lives of our people
in many respects, through improving the
educational outcomes of our youth and
transforming an economy that was constituted
to serve the interests of a few.
We have started a comprehensive
dialogue on the question of land reform, which
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
It is within our hands to forge a more representative,
equal and fair UN that is empowered and equipped
to lead the struggle to end poverty, unemployment
and inequality in the world.
18
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | THE UN MUST BECOME A REPRESENTATIVE AND TRULY DEMOCRATIC GLOBAL PARLIAMENT OF THE PEOPLE

is guided by our Constitution and the rule of
law as we seek ways to ensure that the land
is shared among all who work it, as set out in
our Freedom Charter.
Even as our country is going through
difficulteconomicchallenges,wehavemade
progress.
We are reforming our economy and
creating an environment that is conducive
to investment, and have embarked on an
investment drive to attract US$100 billion in
thenextfiveyears.
To the poor, vulnerable, and marginalised,
the UN today is a beacon of promise in a
landscape of doubt.
To billions across the world, the UN is
the most powerful instrument we possess
to achieve a more equal, more humane and
more inclusive world.
They are men and women with dreams
and aspirations that transcend the hardships
of the present, who want to contribute to a
newglobalcivilizationdefinedbycare,justice
and solidarity.
They want an end to the greed, ignorance
and conceit that are driving the destruction of
our only home, the Earth.
It is within our hands to forge a more
representative, equal and fair UN that is
empowered and equipped to lead the struggle
to end poverty, unemployment and inequality
in the world.
We are a young world, where more than
half the global population is under the age of
30 years.
This is even more pronounced on the
continent of Africa, where two-thirds of its
people were not yet born when Nelson
Mandela was released from prison.
We are living in the Age of Youth.
This places a responsibility on us, as
leaders, not only to put the interests of young
people at the centre of our efforts, but also
to empower women and young people to be
more prominent in directing the course of
global affairs.
It is young people who are fighting the
wars that we started.
It is women who are bearing the brunt and
hardships of the wars that continue to destroy
their families and lives.
Young lives are being lost and futures are
being destroyed. There is an urgency to the
measureswemusttaketoendconflictand
war.
Not only must we stop the death, destruction
and human suffering that are visited daily
on millions of people, but we must act with
purpose to prevent the loss of another entire
generation to its aftermath.
We must accept our shared responsibility
– and our shared interest – in ending
conflict, and, using the outcomes of the
Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, empower
the UN to be a more effective instrument for
mediation, peacekeeping and post-conflict
reconstruction.
Ourresolvetoendongoingconflictsand
our determination to root out terrorism must
be matched by action and by the appropriate
deployment of resources.
We must act with the same urgency to
resolve some of the world’s most protracted
and intractable disputes.
The fact that the people of Palestine have
endured occupation and suffering for nearly
as long as the UN has existed, makes their
plight no less pressing, nor their suffering any
less acceptable.
We must similarly intensify our efforts
to secure the right of the people of Western
Sahara to self-determination and full national
sovereignty.
We are reforming our economy and creating an
environment that is conducive to investment, and
have embarked on an investment drive to attract
US$100 billion in the next five years
.
19
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
THE UN MUST BECOME A REPRESENTATIVE AND TRULY DEMOCRATIC GLOBAL PARLIAMENT OF THE PEOPLE | DIPLOMACY

One of the greatest challenges to the
achievement of global prosperity and
development is the continued exclusion of
millions of women and young people from
meaningful economic participation.
It is therefore vital that we deploy every
means at our disposal to address youth
unemployment and ensure universal
access to educational opportunities that are
appropriate to the changing world of work.
We need a deliberate programme to
ensure that the digital revolution – which
carries such great potential for both disruption
and empowerment – is effectively harnessed
to promote social justice and human progress.
The call to leave no one behind requires
that we strengthen the institutions of global
governance and make them more responsive
to the needs of young people, particularly in
the developing world.
Institutions like the UN, World Bank,
International Monetary Fund and the World
Trade Organisation need to be reshaped and
enhanced so that they may more effectively
meet the challenges of the contemporary
world and better serve the interests of the
poor and marginalised.
Reform of the UN, and particularly its
Security Council, is a priority if we are to
give full effect to the values and principles
enshrined in the UN Charter.
We must resist any and all efforts to
undermine the multilateral approach to
international trade, which is essential to the
promotion of stability and predictability in the
global economy.
The history of the global economy informs
us that no country can prosper at the expense
of all others, and that no people can hope
to live in comfort and security for as long as
millions of others languish in poverty.
It is therefore essential that we take
collective responsibility for the development
of all nations and for the improvement of the
lives of all people.
This responsibility manifests in the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, the
Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the
AddisAbabaActionAgendaonthefinancing
of development, among others.
Together, they represent our
common commitment to tackle poverty,
underdevelopment and environmental
degradation.
They represent our common commitment
to tackle diseases such as AIDS, tuberculosis,
malaria, diabetes and cancer.
Our task as global leaders is to pursue the
policies that are required to turn intent into
implementation and mobilise the resources
needed to turn implementation into impact.
As Africans, we have made significant
strides in addressing the challenges that have
confronted our continent over many decades.
We continue to vigorously implement our
commitments contained in the African Union
Agenda 2063, which is our collective plan
to rid our continent of underdevelopment,
povertyandconflictandimprovedemocratic
governance, the rule of law and the promotion
of human rights.
We have reached agreement on the
establishment of an African Continental
Free Trade Area, which will fundamentally
transform African economies, giving rise to a
new industrial age on the continent.
We are working to silence the guns in
Africaby2020,tobringanendtoconflictsthat
have cost the lives of millions of our people,
displaced many more and stunted economic
growth and human development.
As the continent with the youngest
population in the world, Africa has the potential
to be the next great frontier for global growth.
With effective investment in education,
improved healthcare, good governance and
greater economic integration, Africa has the
potential to develop its productive capacity
on a scale and at a rate that will lift tens of
millions out of poverty.
The youth of Africa are poised to transform
their continent.
As the people of South Africa, we are
committed to be part of this transformation.
From the ashes of a system that was
described by the UN General Assembly as a
20
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | THE UN MUST BECOME A REPRESENTATIVE AND TRULY DEMOCRATIC GLOBAL PARLIAMENT OF THE PEOPLE

From 25 to 27 September 2018, President
CyrilRamaphosaparticipatedforthefirst
time in the General Debate of the 73rd
Session of the United Nations General
Assembly (UNGA73), under the theme:
“Making the United Nations Relevant to
all People: Global Leadership and Shared
Responsibilities for Peaceful, Equitable
and Sustainable Societies”.
The President’s programme commenced
with the unveiling of a life-size statue of the
latestruggleiconandfirstdemocratically
elected President of South Africa, Nelson
Mandela, at the UN Headquarters.
Addressing the occasion, President
Ramaphosa said the statue would remain
a constant reminder to the international
community of the dedication of Nelson
Mandela to the mission of the UN. It would
also be a constant affirmation of South
Africa’s commitment to contribute to a
better world for all.
“President Mandela firmly believed
that the UN was the most valuable and
effective instrument for the advancement
of peace, development and equality that
humanity had conceived,” said President
Ramaphosa.
Also convened in honour of the
centenary of the birth of President Mandela
was the UN Nelson Mandela Peace
Summit, where President Ramaphosa
acknowledged efforts of the world body in
peacekeeping, while cautioning that the
organisation faced intricate and complex
challenges.
“Over the past seven decades, millions
of people worldwide have been killed,
maimed, displaced and starved as a result
ofwarandconflicts.Wearecalledupon
to act decisively to end the exposure of
women and children to untold suffering
including displacement, torture, rape,
mutilation and murder,” said President
Ramaphosa.
In his maiden address to the UNGA,
President Ramaphosa urged world leaders
to take stock of the effectiveness of the UN
and to chart a way forward to improve the
organisation’sefficiencyandrelevanceby
making it more democratic, responsive
and transparent.
i
The President said: “The UN must become
what billions of people across the world want
it to be – a representative and truly democratic
global parliament of the people.”
The President strongly defended
multilateralism, urging leaders to resist any
and all efforts to undermine the multilateral
approach to international trade, which is
essential to the promotion of stability and
predictability in the global economy.
President Ramaphosa drew the attention
of world leaders to progress being made in
South Africa despite the country’s difficult
economic challenges. “We are reforming
our economy and creating an environment
that is conducive to investment, and have
embarked on an investment drive to attract
US$100billioninthenextfiveyears.”
Turning to land reform, the President
said a comprehensive dialogue guided by
the Constitution and the rule of law would
ultimately provide a resolution. “We have
started a comprehensive dialogue on the
question of land reform, which is guided by
our Constitution and the rule of law as we
seek ways to ensure that the land is shared
among all who work it, as set out in our
Freedom Charter.”
President Ramaphosa reiterated previous
calls for the UN to reform, particularly the
Security Council (SC), which still does not
have permanent African representation.
President Ramaphosa also called on the
UN to act with urgency to resolve some of
the world’s most protracted and intractable
disputes, particularly that of the people of
Palestine who have endured occupation and
suffering for nearly as long as the world body
has existed.
In addition to the UNGA General Debate,
President Ramaphosa participated in the UN
High-Level Meeting on Tuberculosis (TB). The
meeting focussed on efforts to accelerate an
end to TB and reach all affected people with
prevention and care. “TB is not just a medical
condition. It has many social determinants,
including poverty, unemployment, poor
nutrition, overcrowding and social stigma that
fuel the spread of diseases,” said President
Ramaphosa.
The President also reiterated South
Africa’ssupportforthe“KeyAsks”identified
through a consultative process led by
the World Health Organisation, Stop
TB Partnership, civil society and other
interested parties.
“We would like to see the declaration
emanating from this High-Level Meeting
embracing the “Key Asks” and setting
in motion the bold response needed to
end the global TB epidemic. Investing in
research and development is critical if we
are to develop new diagnostics, vaccines
andmedicines–andfindinnovativeways
to deal with the social determinants of TB
and its transmission.
“As South Africa, we look forward to
the meeting of the UNGA of 2030 where
it should be declared that indeed, we have
ended the TB epidemic.”
The President also addressed the
Council on Foreign Relations (CFR)
Meeting. The CFR meetings convene
government officials, global business
leaders and prominent members of the
intelligence and foreign-policy community
from around the world to discuss
international issues.
The President’s Working Visit
concluded with trade and investment
promotion engagements that included the
Invest in South Africa Private Roundtable,
the Bloomberg Global Business Forum
Panel Discussion as well as the Business
Seminar on Opportunities in South
Africa. These engagements were part of
a sustained programme of stimulating
interest and attracting foreign direct
investment into the South African economy,
alongside creating the conditions for
greater domestic investment
President Ramaphosa was
accompanied by Ministers Lindiwe Sisulu
of International Relations and Cooperation;
Rob Davies of Trade and Industry;
Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula of Defence
and Military Veterans; Nhlanhla Nene of
Finance; Aaron Motsoaledi of Health; Nathi
Mthethwa of Arts and Culture; Siyabonga
Cwele of Telecommunications and
Postal Services; Naledi Pandor of Higher
Education; Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba of State
Security; and Gugile Nkwinti of Water and
Sanitation.
crime against humanity, we are building a new
democratic nation, united in its diversity.
We are working to correct the injustices
of our past and to build a society that is free,
inclusive and sustainable.
We are pursuing an economic path that
draws on the resources and capabilities
of all our people to eradicate poverty,
unemployment and inequality.
We are determined through our
international relations to be a force for
progress and peace and global equality, and
will continue to advance the interests of the
African continent and the Global South.
Nelson Mandela once said: “Sometimes it
falls on a generation to be great”.
This is not the generation that will stand
expectant at the gates of hope. This is the
generation that will change the world. This
is their time, and this is their age. Let their
greatness blossom.
21
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
THE UN MUST BECOME A REPRESENTATIVE AND TRULY DEMOCRATIC GLOBAL PARLIAMENT OF THE PEOPLE | DIPLOMACY

22
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
T
his year, South Africa
will celebrate 25 years of
democracy, hold its sixth
democratic national election
and accelerate the process of
economic revival and growth.
Over the last quarter century, the country
has made remarkable progress in expanding
opportunities for its people, most of whom
still live with the effects of the apartheid
system. Millions of poor South Africans have
been provided with houses, social support,
electricity and water. The black middle
class has grown significantly and access
to healthcare and education have been
expanded.
However, over the last decade, growth
has been slow, progress in several areas
has stalled and corruption has undermined
key public institutions and state-owned
enterprises. More South Africans are
employed than ever before, yet our levels of
inequality remain among the highest in the
world.
In the last year, we have taken firm
measures to correct this. As a result, the
country is now emerging from a period of
economic stagnation and political uncertainty
and has entered a new era of renewal in
support of our growth ambitions.
Wehaveafirmfoundationonwhichtobuild.
South Africa’s high level of industrialisation,
our position as a key manufacturing hub and
services destination on the African continent,
and our strong financial sector are key
drawcards for investors.
Furthermore, we are one of the most
technologically resourced countries in Africa.
We consistently rank highly in terms of
Internet bandwidth capacity and broadband
penetration and have some of the highest
mobile phone subscription rates on the
continent.
Whether it is in mining, manufacturing,
agriculture, clothing and textiles, services,
tourism or the ocean economy, South Africa’s
economy is as diverse as it is sophisticated. It
is our ambition to diversify our export basket
further and move towards higher productivity
and enhanced global competitiveness.
We are aware of the critical policy missteps
that led our economy to flounder and the
effect that corruption and political patronage
havehadonpublicconfidence.
But the political and economic landscape of
South Africa has vastly improved. I have
laid out ambitious plans to turn our economy
around, restore business confidence, deal
decisively with corruption and get our people
working again.
We have registered significant gains.
As part of an ambitious drive to raise
US$100 billion in new investment in five
years, I appointed four investment envoys
and assembled a specialised team to mobilise
and facilitate investment. Just a few months
into this journey, commitments of more than
US$6billionshowinvestorshaveconfidence
in the range of reform measures we have put
in place.
Government is working with the local and
international business community, labour, civil
society and other stakeholders to drive our
economic recovery. These social partners
have also agreed on a range of actions to
create new jobs and protect existing ones.
We promised to restore good governance,
deal with corruption and restore faith in our
public institutions. Commissions of inquiry
have been established to investigate the
capture of government institutions and key
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
Why South Africa is on a
path of economic renewal

23
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SOUTH AFRICA HAS POSITIONED ITSELF AS A FORCE FOR GOOD IN THE WORLD | DIPLOMACY
state-owned entities by private interests. We
have appointed new boards and executives
to these entities and begun steering their
recovery in earnest.
Efforts to introduce a new era of
accountability are taking hold. The state
revenue service, a vital cog in the economy,
isbeingstabilised.Confidenceinthecriminal
justice system is also being restored through
the appointment of new leadership teams.
We have made important headway
in addressing policy uncertainty and
inconsistency. Through consultation with all
stakeholders, we have revised the country’s
mining policy, balancing the need for growth
with the need for transformation of the
industry. After years of delay, a plan outlining
ourcountry’senergymixuntil2050isfinally
on the table.
We have begun a process to pave the
way for faster and more sustainable land
reform – vital to provide policy certainty and
predictability and to support the stable growth
of our economy. This ongoing dialogue
between different sectors of our society
has the potential to forge a comprehensive,
sustainable solution to an issue that has
divided our nation for centuries.
We are committed to pursuing these
economic and political reforms necessary to
restoretheconfidenceofourcitizensaswell
as domestic and international investors.
As political turmoil plagues the globe,
South Africa once again stands out as a
beacon of hope and cooperation in a new
world order. All nations’ economic destinies
remain intertwined and as a bridge between
the developing and developed world, South
Africa offers a rejuvenated vision for a future
of shared prosperity.

F
rom 25 to 26 March 2019, the
Southern African Development
Community (SADC) convened
a Solidarity Conference
with Western Sahara at
the level of Heads of State
and Government at the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation in
Pretoria. It was a historic and unprecedented
event. Although political formations have
hosted such important events in the past, we
have no collection of an intergovernmental
body hosting a conference of this nature.
The conference, which was attended by
more than 20 countries, served to remind us
of what we have always believed – that until
the last colony, the Saharawi Arab Democratic
Republic (SADR), is decolonised, none of us
are truly free.
The SADC Solidarity Conference with
Western Sahara was convened to, among
otherthings,reaffirmtherightofthepeopleof
Western Sahara to self-determination in line
with the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations (UN) and applicable documents of
the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) and
African Union (AU) as well as to champion
the implementation of the UN resolutions and
OAU and AU decisions to allow the people of
Western Sahara to exercise their right to self-
determination.
The conference was the realisation of a
formally adopted resolution by and binding
on all of us as SADC. This principled
decision was initiated by the SADC Council
of Ministers in July 2017 in Tanzania. At
the 37th SADC Summit following on the
Ministerial Conference in August 2017, the
convening of the conference on solidarity
with the people of Saharawi was adopted by
a unanimous decision by all.
Wefinallycametogetherinthelandof
Nelson Mandela to clearly demonstrate our
international solidarity with the Saharawi
people in their quest for self-determination.
It is this kind of solidarity and support for the
people of Western Sahara that must give
courage and impetus to their struggle for self-
determination.
ItisbefittingthattheSolidarityConference
was held on South African soil because
democratic South Africa is itself a product
of international solidarity. This happened
because many people in the world took a
principled position on the need to support our
struggle for freedom. The same applied to
the support for the struggles of the peoples
of Angola, Namibia, Zimbabwe and other
countries.
We cannot but be moved by the plight of the
Saharawi people.
It has been 43 years since Western Sahara
was annexed, and for these four decades the
people of Western Sahara have had to ensure
dispossession,displacement,conflictandthe
deprivation of their liberties.
The Saharawi people have lived in refugee
camps in Tindouf in Algeria since the 1970s,
making this one of the longest humanitarian
crises the world has known.
In these camps, men, women and children
live in desperate conditions, relying on
international aid to survive.
The situation of the Saharawi people is a
blight on the human conscience, all the more
so that it has endured for far too long.
Itisimportantthatwefindcommonground
as we consolidate international solidarity
with the Saharawi people to realise their
inalienable right to self-determination.
Most of us have attained our freedom,
strengthened and assisted by the solidarity of
people who cared about our plight.
We knew that every country has an
inalienable right to independence and self-
determination, consistent with the principles
of the Charter of the UN and applicable UN
Security Council (UNSC) resolutions as well
By Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
A referendum in
Western Sahara will
give the people a
clear choice
DIPLOMACY | A REFERENDUM IN WESTERN SAHARA WILL GIVE THE PEOPLE A CLEAR CHOICE
24
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

as the relevant decisions of the AU and its
predecessor, the OAU.
The UN has played a significant role
and passed many resolutions in raising
the plight of the people of Saharawi long
before most of us attained our freedom. On
14 December 1960, the UN General
Assembly unanimously passed Resolution
1514 (XV), also known as the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples. This declaration
made it possible in the course of the last
50 years for more than a hundred colonial
territories to get independence, as well as
several non-self-governing territories and
those put under protection to exercise their
right to self-determination and independence.
Saharawi was one of these.
Since the adoption of Resolution 1514
(XV), a great number of former colonial
territories, achieved their independence and
are sovereign state members of the UN,
carrying out, individually and collectively,
their full responsibilities, with a view of
implementing the goals and principles of the
UN Charter.
Although the UN has taken an active role
in this matter, we as SADC members have
decided that our solidarity will complement
these efforts. For as long as our sister peoples
of Western Sahara continue to be denied their
inalienable right to self-determination and
independence consistent with the principles
and purposes of the Charter of the UN, there
is no post-colonial Africa. We are now free
from colonialism and we call modern Africa,
post-colonial Africa. We need to ensure that it
is indeed post-colonial in all states, because it
is incorrect to repeat regular references to our
continent as “post-colonial”, when the people
of Western Sahara are not free.
TheSaharawipeoplehavebeenfighting
for their inalienable right to self-determination
for far too long. This notwithstanding the
various attempts that have been made by our
continental community, mainly by the AU and
the OAU as well as the UN, which has long
decided that there must be a referendum in
Western Sahara.
The first of such attempts was the
August 1988 Settlement Plan, accepted
by Morocco, that was jointly elaborated by
the UN and OAU and endorsed by UNSC
in its resolutions 650 of 1990 and 690 of
1991. Furthermore, the UNSC resolutions,
particularly resolutions 621 of 1988 and 658
of 1990 approved the holding of a referendum
for the self-determination of the people of
Western Sahara.
The year 2019 marks 28 years since the
signing of the Western Sahara ceasefire
agreement, yet the Saharawi people have,
year-in-year-out since then, been denied the
opportunity of holding a referendum to decide
their future.
The Saharawi people are not asking
for something impossible, but, a right to
self-determination so that they can take
responsibility for their own destiny. They do
so because they have a right to it like any
other nation in the world. A right that has been
recognised in terms of International Law since
1975 when the International Court of Justice
provided an advisory note in which it did not
recognise Morocco’s claim to the land. Since
then, there has been a myriad of international
resolutions and court judgments that have
recognised the Saharawi people’s right to
self-determination. The time has come to
allow them to exercise their legitimate right to
self-determination through a referendum.
Our support of the Western Sahara cause
is based on several principles, which include,
among others:
• multilateralism and international legality
inseekinglastingsolutionstoconflict
• the centrality of the AU and UN in the
resolutionofconflict
• respect for human rights law in the
occupied territories, respect for
international humanitarian law and
support for the provision of humanitarian
assistance to Saharawi refugees
A REFERENDUM IN WESTERN SAHARA WILL GIVE THE PEOPLE A CLEAR CHOICE | DIPLOMACY
25
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

• an end to the illegal exploitation of the
natural resources of Western Sahara in
the illegally occupied territory
• the need to respect the various laws
of occupation that compel democratic
states not to legitimise though its actions,
internationally wrongful acts
• our opposition to colonialism, occupation
and support for a nation’s right to self-
determination.
A lasting solution to the Western Sahara
conflict has to be found through the UN
mechanism in the form of a referendum. The
referendum must give the Saharawi people
a clear choice, with one of the options being
independence in a sovereign state. Anything
else will not represent negotiations in good
faith.SouthAfricafirmlyrejectsanyattempt
to coerce or force the Saharawi people into
a pre-determined outcome, or an outcome
decided by others at their expense.
The Solidarity Conference reflected our
commitment, as the countries of Africa,
supported by our friends in the international
community, to call for a just, acceptable and
lasting solution to the situation in Western
Sahara. The pain of the Saharawi people,
their trauma brought about by displacement
and exile, is ours too.
So long as the aspirations of the people of
Western Sahara are not met, we will fall short
of realising the vision of the AU’s Agenda
2063 of a continent at peace with itself.
So long as the
aspirations of the
people of Western
Sahara are not met,
we will fall short of
realising the vision of
the AU’s Agenda 2063
of a continent at peace
with itself.
DIPLOMACY | A REFERENDUM IN WESTERN SAHARA WILL GIVE THE PEOPLE A CLEAR CHOICE
26
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

27
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

T
he Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation,
Lindiwe Sisulu, on 28 March
2019, travelled to Mozambique
and Zimbabwe to hand over
donations aimed at assisting
victims of Cyclone Idai.
The cyclone left a trail of destruction,
displaced hundreds of thousands of people,
destroyed vast areas, cut off communication
networks and made roads impassable.
Minister Sisulu visited the city of Beira in
Mozambique and the Chimanimani District in
eastern Zimbabwe to hand over the donations
made by South African citizens, companies
and members of the Diplomatic Corps, who
heeded the earlier call for assistance by the
Minister.Thedonationsincludedfinancialaid,
SA reaches out to neighbours in distress
clothes,waterpurifiers,non-perishablefood
items and blankets.
Minister Sisulu also met rescue teams,
including the South African National
Defence Force (SANDF), non-governmental
organisations (NGOs), United Nations (UN)
agencies and volunteers.
The Minister was accompanied by
members of the business community led by
Patrice Motsepe, the founder and executive
chairperson of African Rainbow Minerals.
The Minister expressed her sincere
gratitude to all the South African companies,
NGOs and individuals who have responded,
and are still responding, to the call for
humanitarian assistance for victims affected
by Cyclone Idai in Malawi, Zimbabwe and
Mozambique.
“We are humbled by the generosity of all
South Africans who continue to deliver boxes
of goods to the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation. This is who we
are. This is what Ubuntu is,” said Minister
Sisulu.
They donated an amount of R120 million
towards relief efforts in Mozambique,
Zimbabwe and Malawi. The donations will go
towards infrastructure development following
thefloodsinthosecountries.
Two weeks before the visit, Minister
Sisulu appealed to South Africans, corporate
companies and NGOs to make relief
donations to the victims of Cyclone Idai.
“As the South African Government, we are
humbled by the remarkable response from all
South Africans. We have received donations
ranging from blankets, mattresses, medical
28
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | SA REACHES OUT TO NEIGHBOURS IN DISTRESS

supplies,waterpurifierstofood”,saidMinister
Sisulu.
“We continue to receive various donations
from different sectors of our society, including
churches and the private sector.
“We wish to extend our words of
appreciation to everyone who has responded
to the call to assist our neighbours in need.
Working together as a nation, we will succeed
in restoring smiles to the faces of the people
of Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi”,
added Minister Sisulu.
Using its air platforms, the SANDF
engaged in multilateral efforts to provide
lifesaving and sustenance supplies to areas
cut off by the devastating cyclone.
The SANDF was critical to all agencies
operating in the area in that it provided
air-lifts to assist in most low-lying areas,
including Beira in Mozambique, which saw
entire villages submerged under water,
with the death toll rising and many people
unaccounted for.
Other international agencies also assisted.
Thefirstofthreeplanescarryingreliefitems
from the UN Refugee Agency landed early
on Wednesday, 27 March 2019, in the
Mozambican capital, Maputo. The supplies
– including tents, sleeping mats, mosquito
nets and solar lanterns – were distributed to
30 000 people in Mozambique, as well as
Malawi and Zimbabwe.
The World Health Organisation provided
supplies to treat diarrhoeal diseases and
cholera, and helped to set up cholera
treatment centres.
In its statement on 27 March 2019, Cabinet
expressed its appreciation on the work done
by the SANDF, South African Police Service
and the Department of Health. It also thanked
NGOs and the Gift of the Givers for providing
ongoing humanitarian and disaster-relief
assistance.
“We are humbled by
the generosity of all
South Africans who
continue to deliver
boxes of goods to
the Department of
International Relations
and Cooperation. This
is who we are. This is
what Ubuntu is,” said
Minister Sisulu.
29
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

T
he African Union (AU) Summit,
held in July 2017 in Nouakchott,
Mauritania, took several important
decisions that will place the
continent on a path to rapid
growth and stability, as envisioned in the AU’s
long-term vision document, Agenda 2063.
Agenda 2063 is a strategic framework
for the socio-economic transformation
of the continent up to the year 2063, the
centenary year of the founding of the AU’s
predecessor, the Organisation of African
Unity. The vision document sets out ways
through which African states can collectively
accelerate the implementation of past and
existing continental initiatives for growth and
sustainable development.
The Africa Rising narrative has never
been more evident than now with the AU’s
collective commitment to the implementation
of the African Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) Agreement, which will have a far-
reaching impact on the African economies
andsignificantlyincreaseintra-Africatrade,
investment and infrastructure development.
Africa rising – African Union’s landmark
resolutions place the continent on the
path to rapid growth and stability
By Deputy Director-General Xolisa Makaya
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation
Agenda 2063 is a
strategic framework for
the socio-economic
transformation of the
continent up to the year
2063, the centenary
year of the founding of
the AU’s predecessor,
the Organisation of
African Unity.
30
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | AFRICA RISING

The AfCFTA will integrate Africa, leading
to the creation of a single market of over
one billion people and approximately
US$3,3 trillion in gross domestic product.
During the summit, President Cyril
Ramaphosa signed the AfCFTA, which
was ratified by Parliament in December
2018. President Ramaphosa handed in
the Instrument of Ratification to the AU
Commission during the AU Summit, which
took place from 10 to 11 February 2019 in
Ethiopia. The agreement is an important
step towards South Africa’s participation in
this market that will create opportunities and
many benefits for the country and enable
South African companies to export goods
and services across the continent. It will
contribute to the growth and diversification
of our economy and therefore create jobs, as
well as reduce inequality and unemployment.
Another landmark resolution adopted
at the AU Summit with a view to enhancing
Africa’s economic development, trade and
investment, is the establishment of the
AU Development Agency (AUDA). The
AU Summit approved the establishment
of the AUDA as a technical body of the
AU, and requested the AU Commission, in
consultation with the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Planning and
Implementation Agency, to develop a statute
for AUDA and submit it for adoption at the
January 2019 AU Summit.
The NEPAD Agency is responsible for the
implementation of the AU’s Agenda 2063 and
works to support the realisation of various
development programmes and initiatives
within African countries. The transition from
NEPAD to AUDA will be undertaken as part of
the establishment of the latter.
These positive developments offer the
prospect of a new dawn for Africa.
The unity and renewal of our African
continent must be pursued together with
efforts to transform the global system. It is
within this context that the 10th Brazil, Russia,
India, China and South Africa (BRICS)
Summit in Sandton, Johannesburg, under our
Chairship, hosted an Africa Outreach meeting
of selected heads of state and government.
This approach was started in Durban when
we hosted the BRICS Summit in 2013.
Our view is that we must continue to
promote and enhance the implementation of
the AU’s Agenda 2063 through the BRICS
mechanisms, among other routes. In this way,
we will be able to improve intra-Africa trade
and leverage more on alternative sources of
funding that the BRICS New Development
Bank provides for infrastructure development
and sustainable development. The continent
isalreadybenefittinginthisregard,particularly
in implementing the BRICS-funded AU North-
South Development Corridor projects.
An effective, efficient and a financially
self-reliant AU is required if the continent is to
achieve its goal of integration, development,
peace and security. In this regard, the AU
Summit discussed various institutional
and financial reform measures, which will
not only place our continent on the path
towards Africa’s transformation, but will
31
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
AFRICA RISING | DIPLOMACY

also reverse the dependency that hampers
the development of the full potential of our
continent.
Africa continues to make progress in its
questtomobilisefinancialresourceswithin
the continent through the full implementation
ofthedecisiononfinancingoftheAU,adopted
in 2016. With the efforts that have been put
inplaceinthefightagainstcorruptionand
illicitfinancialflows,Africacanaugmentand
enhance its prospects for adequate self-
financingforitsdevelopmentagenda.
The African continent has become
generally politically stable and has over the
past 20 years made significant strides in
deepening democracy and good governance.
Conducting elections has also become
regular. Peace and security matters were
also high on the agenda of the AU Summit,
where the situation in South Sudan, Ethiopia,
Eritrea, Libya and Somalia was discussed.
Progressmadeinthefightagainstterrorism
and extremism on the continent was also
raised.
The AU Summit adopted two very
important resolutions on the AU’s Agenda
2063 Flagship Project on Silencing the Guns
in Africa by 2020. Firstly, member states were
urged to mark September as Africa Amnesty
Month by mobilising citizens to voluntarily
surrender illegally owned weapons. Secondly,
member states were called on to submit
reports on their efforts to implement the
AU Master Roadmap on Practical Steps to
Silence the Guns in Africa by 2020.
The goal of Silencing the Guns in Africa
by 2020, as contained in Agenda 2063, will
coincide with the end of South Africa’s two-
year tenure on the United Nations Security
Council (UNSC). Our term as a non-
permanent member of the UNSC is running
from January 2019 to December 2020.
Among the priorities South Africa will
pursue in the council to achieve this goal
will include: addressing the inextricable
link between security and development;
strengthening political solutions to conflict
situations, including through preventive
diplomacy, conflict prevention and
management, mediation and peace-building;
and strengthening cooperation between
the UNSC and the AU Peace and Security
Council in the maintenance of international
peace and security.
South Africa is fully committed to
implementing the decisions taken at the AU
Summit. For too long, laudable initiatives
have failed to come to fruition as a result
of failure to implement. Our leaders are
becoming increasingly impatient with delays
and procrastinations.
South Africa is fully
committed to implementing
the decisions taken at the
AU Summit. For too long,
laudable initiatives have
failed to come to fruition
as a result of failure to
implement. Our leaders
are becoming increasingly
impatient with delays and
procrastinations.
32
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | AFRICA RISING

33
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Fighting
Hunger
Worldwide
Every year, WFP assists some 80 million
people in around 82 countries.
WFP is the world’s largest humanitarian
agency fighting hunger worldwide, delivering
food assistance in emergencies and working
with communities to improve nutrition, provide
school meals and build resilience.
To learn more about our work, visit wfp.org
WFP/Claudia Altorio/Lesotho

T
he Forum on China-Africa
Cooperation (FOCAC) Summit
took place in Beijing from
3 to 4 September 2018 under
the theme: “China and Africa:
Towards an Even Stronger Community with a
Shared Future through Win-Win Cooperation”.
The event was co-chaired by President
Cyril Ramaphosa and China’s President Xi
Jinping. At the summit’s conclusion, South
Africa handed over the Co-Chairship of
FOCAC to Senegal, having served six years
(2012 to 2018) in this role.
FOCAC brought together 52 African
countries, the African Union (AU) Commission
and the People’s Republic of China, as
equal partners in fostering greater unity and
cooperation.
Founded on the principles of South-South
cooperation, the summit provided a basis for
mutualbenefitandsupport,whileservingasa
vehicle through which Africa and China could
stimulate growth and unlock new opportunities
in trade and cooperation.
The relationship between China and
Africa is based on more than just trade: it is
a partnership aligned to Africa’s development
goals, as contained in the AU’s Agenda
2063 and the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development.
FOCAC is a multilateral platform for
exchange and cooperation, covering various
aspects of politics, trade, economy and
culture.
The last FOCAC Summit was held in
Johannesburg in 2015. At that event, China
pledged support to Africa’s development.
President Xi announced the upgrading of
the Sino-African Strategic Partnership to
a Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative
Partnership, guided by the principles of
“sincerity, real results, affinity and good
faith”. The announcement included new
measures, which were implemented from
2016 to 2018, and were aimed at addressing
the three bottlenecks in Africa that are
hampering development on the continent:
poor infrastructure, lack of skilled personnel
and lack of capital sources.
To build the China-Africa Comprehensive
Strategic and Cooperative Partnership,
China committed itself to implementing
10 cooperation plans – in the areas of
industrialisation, agricultural modernisation,
infrastructure, financial services, green
development, trade and investment
facilitation, poverty reduction and public
welfare, public health, people-to-people
exchanges, and peace and security.
To facilitate the implementation of these
measures, China announced the provision
of US$60 billion (R884 billion) for funding
support. This included US$5 billion for grants
and zero-interest loans; US$35 billion for
concessional loans and export credit; and
US$5 billion for technical and industrial
Solidifying Africa’s ties with China
FOCAC brought together 52 African countries,
the African Union Commission and the People’s
Republic of China, as equal partners in fostering
greater unity and cooperation
.
By Dr Anil Sooklal
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation
34
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | SOLIDIFYING AFRICA’S TIES WITH CHINA

project funding. Furthermore, an increase of
US$5 billion would be added to the China-
Africa Development Fund and Special
Loans for the Development of Africa. The
China-Africa Fund for Production Capacity
Cooperation will be provided with an initial
contribution of US$10 billion.
The summit adopted the new Beijing
Action Plan (2019 to 2021), which will chart
a new course of China-Africa friendship and
mutuallybeneficialcooperationacrossvarious
fieldsinthenextthreeyears.Thefocuswill
be on political and economic cooperation,
social development cooperation, cultural and
people exchanges, peace and security, and
international cooperation. As partners, China
and Africa also aim to strengthen the Belt and
Road Initiative, which advances infrastructure
and boosts trade.
South Africa envisions a greater focus
on institution-building by establishing skills
development centres in all of the AU’s
regional economic communities. This was a
key deliverable of the 2018 FOCAC Summit.
During its tenure as Co-Chair, South Africa
ensured that infrastructure development
initiatives were successfully realised to
enhance intra-regional trade and attract trade
and investment towards Africa.
A large number of Africa’s priority FOCAC
projects were either completed or under way.
Some of these projects include the Mombasa-
Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway in Kenya
and the Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway Project.
On a bilateral level, China is South Africa’s
largest trading partner, and has been so for
nine consecutive years. In 2017, bilateral
trade grew by 11,7% to US$39,17 billion – a
morethantwentyfoldincreasefromthefigure
at the start of diplomatic relations.
China has become a major investment
partner for South Africa in stimulating economic
and social transformation and development.
South Africa is the top destination of Chinese
investment in Africa, with investments of more
than US$25 billion in accumulative terms
having accrued by June 2017. More than 180
major Chinese enterprises and thousands
of small and medium enterprises have been
established in the country. In addition, South
Africa hosts the largest number of Chinese
tourists in Africa, with about 100 000 citizens
having visited the country in 2017.
In many areas, the China-Africa partnership
has delivered concrete outcomes that are
beneficial to Africa. Africa is committed to
utilising this partnership to the fullest in terms
of market access and business opportunities.
There is also a need to align the
partnership with the AU’s strategic objectives.
In this regard, we look forward to cementing
an even stronger China-Africa partnership
through win-win cooperation.
In many areas, the China-Africa partnership has
delivered concrete outcomes that are beneficial
to Africa. Africa is committed to utilising this
partnership to the fullest in terms of market
access and business opportunities.
35
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SOLIDIFYING AFRICA’S TIES WITH CHINA | DIPLOMACY

S
outh Africa hosted a
successful 10th Brazil,
Russia, India and China
(BRICS) Summit from
25 to 27 July 2018 in
Sandton under the theme:
“BRICS in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive
Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th
Industrial Revolution”. It was attended by
the heads of state and government of South
Africa, Brazil, Russia, India, China, Rwanda,
Ethiopia, Angola, Zambia, Namibia, Senegal,
Gabon, Togo, Uganda, Jamaica, Argentina,
Turkey, Botswana, Democratic Republic
of Congo, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania
and Zimbabwe.
The BRICS Summit took place during
a period when we were commemorating
the centenary of the birth of two of South
Africa’s struggle icons, Tata Nelson Mandela
and Mama Albertina Sisulu. The values
they represent served as an inspiration for
our discussion on key issues affecting the
international community, as well as the rich
discussion with our outreach partners.
The agenda of the BRICS Summit was
extensive,whichwasadirectreflectionofthe
diversity and depth of interaction between the
fivecountries.Wediscussedissuesofmutual
concern aimed at achieving development,
economic growth and prosperity, as well as
peace and security. We acknowledged that
we had travelled a remarkable path over the
course of the last 10 years and we remained
committed to growing our economies and
improving the lives of our peoples. We also
highlighted our commitment to building
responsive, inclusive and collective solutions
to the world’s economic challenges, including
poverty, inequality and unemployment.
The BRICS countries are firmly in
agreement on the need to safeguard and
Ushering in a second decade
of BRICS strategic cooperation
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
The agenda of the BRICS Summit was
extensive, which was a direct reflection of the
diversity and depth of interaction between the
five countries.
36
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | USHERING IN A SECOND DECADE OF BRICS STRATEGIC COOPERATION

strengthen multilateralism. In this regard,
we support the centrality of the United
Nations (UN), as the universal multilateral
organisation entrusted with the mandate
for maintaining international peace and
security, advancing global development and
promoting and protecting human rights, so as
to build a brighter shared future for the global
community.
We reiterated in our discussions the
strengthening of multilateral institutions
of global governance and the need for
comprehensive reform of the UN, including
theSecurityCouncil(SC).Weaffirmedour
commitment to the World Trade Organisation
to ensure a rules-based, transparent, non-
discriminatory, open and inclusive multilateral
trading system.
We are committed to the full implementation
of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and its 17 Sustainable
Development Goals to ensure equitable,
inclusive, open, all-round, innovation-
driven and sustainable development. We
emphasised that the three dimensions of
sustainable development – economic, social
and environmental – should be addressed
in a balanced and integrated manner. We
furthermore discussed the importance of
strengthening our cooperation to deal with the
challenges brought about by climate change
and assure the world of our commitment to
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
In respect of global security matters, we
noted, with concern, the challenges and
threats faced by the international community
and committed to enhance communication
and cooperation among BRICS countries
in international fora. In this regard, we also
highlighted the need for BRICS countries
to enhance cooperation on peacekeeping
matters.
It was evident from our discussions that
we stood united in our condemnation of
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations,
wherever committed and by whomsoever. In
this regard, we are committed to countering
terrorism in accordance with the principles of
international law.
We received a positive report from the
BRICS Business Council on their activities
since September 2017 and we commended
them and the BRICS Business Forum for
their collective efforts toward strengthening
economic cooperation in infrastructure,
manufacturing, energy,agriculture, financial
services, e-commerce, alignment of technical
standards and skills development.
During our deliberations, we also
reaffirmedourcommitmenttoBRICSindustrial
cooperation, including on industrial capacities
and policies, new industrial infrastructure
and standards, as well as small, micro and
medium-sized enterprises (SMMEs).
We noted that the notion of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution set us on a path
to further development in key sectors of
information and communications technology
(ICT), digitisation and the growth of SMMEs.
We therefore committed to jointly seize
the myriad of opportunities presented by
the Fourth Industrial Revolution. While
recognising the potential positive impact of
the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are also
aware of the growth of the criminal misuse of
ICTs and in this regard reiterated the need
to develop an international universal legally
binding instrument on combatting criminal use
of ICTs within the UN.
In continuation of the BRICS tradition
of Outreach, first initiated by South Africa
during its first tenure as BRICS Chair in
2013, the BRICS leaders met with African
leaders, including the chairpersons of the
African Union (AU) and the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD); heads
of state and government of the recognised
regional economic communities and of the
AU Commission; as well as with leaders of the
Southern African Development Community.
Following the BRICS Plus initiative of China in
2017, we also met with leaders of the Global
South, namely Argentina as G20 Chair,
Jamaica as Caribbean Community Chair and
Turkey as Chair of the Organisation of the
Islamic Conference.
In this regard, our discussions represented
a continuation of the 2013 BRICS-Africa
discussions, wherein BRICS pledged to
support African development, industrialisation
and infrastructure development, as contained
in the NEPAD programmes and the AU’s
Agenda 2063. There was also discussion
around the implementation of the UN’s
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
and the building of broad partnerships for
development. The rationale behind this
engagement is to create a platform for greater
interaction and partnerships among countries
of the Global South to shape the agenda to
effect changes in the global economy, notably
for:
• development and economic growth through
trade and investment integration
• cooperationinglobalgovernancefinancial,
economic and political institutions.
In seeking to improve the lives of our people,
we endorsed the initiative of enhancing
BRICS cooperation in health through the
establishment of a BRICS Vaccine Centre,
which is key in the promotion of research and
development of medicines and diagnostic
tools to end epidemics and facilitate access
to safe, effective, quality and affordable
essential medicines.
Having recognised the potential, inherent in
the tourism sector for all the BRICS countries,
and the need to foster enhanced people-to-
people relations among our five countries,
we endorsed the establishment of a BRICS
Tourism Track within BRICS. The promotion
of tourism is essential to addressing the
triple challenges of unemployment, inequality
and poverty, which are common to all our
countries. In this regard, we welcomed the
37
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
USHERING IN A SECOND DECADE OF BRICS STRATEGIC COOPERATION | DIPLOMACY

establishment of the BRICS Tourism Track as
it is key to fostering inclusive and sustainable
development.
Women must play an integral role in society,
and we dedicated ourselves to ensuring their
full participation in the economy and society.
The BRICS members are in agreement on the
importanteconomicbenefittobederivedfrom
the socio-economic empowerment of women,
particularly in developing countries. In support
of this ideal, we agreed on the establishment
of a BRICS Women’s Forum.
The following agreements were signed
during the course of the summit:
• Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
on Collaborative Research on Distributed
Ledger and Blockchain Technology in the
Context of the Development of the Digital
Economy
• MoU on BRICS Regional Aviation
Partnership
• Agreement for Establishment of the
RegionalOfficeoftheNewDevelopment
BankfortheAmericasintheCityofSȃo
Paulo, Brazil.
We concluded our deliberations with the
adoption of the Johannesburg Declaration
and Action Plan, which highlight the great
strides that BRICS has made in terms of
establishing institutional mechanisms for
tangible cooperation. We look forward to
strengthening our collaboration as we usher
in the second decade of BRICS strategic
cooperation.
We acknowledged that we had travelled a
remarkable path over the course of the last
10 years and we remained committed to
growing our economies and improving the
lives of our peoples.
Chief Directorate: Consular Services
Tel:  +27 12 351-1000 (Switchboard) – (24-hours)
Fax:  +27 12 329-1752
E-mail: consular@dirco.gov.za
For more information, consult our website at
www.dirco.gov.za – Consular Services
For a list of South African diplomatic, consular and other representatives
in foreign countries, visit www.dirco.gov.za
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation (DIRCO)
#TravelSmartWithDIRCO
38
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

Chief Directorate: Consular Services
Tel:  +27 12 351-1000 (Switchboard) – (24-hours)
Fax:  +27 12 329-1752
E-mail: consular@dirco.gov.za
For more information, consult our website at
www.dirco.gov.za – Consular Services
For a list of South African diplomatic, consular and other representatives
in foreign countries, visit www.dirco.gov.za
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation (DIRCO)
#TravelSmartWithDIRCO
39
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

40
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
United Kingdom
France
Italy
Algeria
Niger
Chad
Angola
Namibia
Argentina
Chile
Bolivia
Brazil
Peru
Colombia
Venezuela
Mexico
United States
Canada
South Africa
Germany
Nigeria
Since our humble beginnings at the southernmost tip of Africa in 1915, we have grown
into a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology
investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term
growth potential, we build leading companies that empower people and enrich
communities. Today, we run some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video
entertainment, and media.
But we have never forgotten our roots.
South Africa is our birthplace and we are proud of our place in a country brimming with
imagination, creativity and innovation. Entrepreneurial spirit is at our heart, and runs deep
in our people, wherever they are in the world.
Today, our endeavours attract global talent to build outstanding companies and products
used across the world by millions of people every day to improve their lives.
We are committed to telling the stories that shape the world of South Africans, to
connecting South Africans to each other and the wider world, to helping people around
the world improve their daily lives, and to entertaining audiences with the best of local
and global content.
NASPERS
Since our humble beginnings at the southernmost tip of Africa in 1915, we have grown
into a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology
Australia
New Zealand
Indonesia
Thailand
India
Pakistan
Kazakhstan
Russia
Ukraine
Italy
Niger
Chad Sudan
Ethiopia
Angola
Namibia
South Africa
Madagascar
Egypt Saudi Arabia
Iraq China South Korea
Japan
Germany
Nigeria
Since our humble beginnings at the southernmost tip of Africa in 1915, we have grown
into a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology
investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term
growth potential, we build leading companies that empower people and enrich
communities. Today, we run some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video
entertainment, and media.
But we have never forgotten our roots.
South Africa is our birthplace and we are proud of our place in a country brimming with
imagination, creativity and innovation. Entrepreneurial spirit is at our heart, and runs deep
in our people, wherever they are in the world.
Today, our endeavours attract global talent to build outstanding companies and products
used across the world by millions of people every day to improve their lives.
We are committed to telling the stories that shape the world of South Africans, to
connecting South Africans to each other and the wider world, to helping people around
the world improve their daily lives, and to entertaining audiences with the best of local
and global content.

41
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Australia
New Zealand
Indonesia
Thailand
India
Pakistan
Kazakhstan
Russia
Ukraine
Italy
Niger
Chad Sudan
Ethiopia
Angola
Namibia
South Africa
Madagascar
Egypt Saudi Arabia
Iraq China South Korea
Japan
Germany
Nigeria
Since our humble beginnings at the southernmost tip of Africa in 1915, we have grown
into a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology
investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term
growth potential, we build leading companies that empower people and enrich
communities. Today, we run some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video
entertainment, and media.
But we have never forgotten our roots.
South Africa is our birthplace and we are proud of our place in a country brimming with
imagination, creativity and innovation. Entrepreneurial spirit is at our heart, and runs deep
in our people, wherever they are in the world.
Today, our endeavours attract global talent to build outstanding companies and products
used across the world by millions of people every day to improve their lives.
We are committed to telling the stories that shape the world of South Africans, to
connecting South Africans to each other and the wider world, to helping people around
the world improve their daily lives, and to entertaining audiences with the best of local
and global content.

NASPERS
The first pivot came in 1985, when Naspers launched
M-Net, Africa’s first pay television channel. The M-Net vision
was forged by a group of energetic young entrepreneurs
with a dogged determination to transform the lives of
South Africa’s viewing public.
This vision would permanently change the face of local
broadcasting. Launched at a turbulent time in South African
history, many believed that the pivot into paid-for TV was a
daring experiment, perhaps even doomed to failure.
Decades later, MultiChoice produces and serves the best of
local and international content to millions of customers
across Africa. And continues to lead innovation in an
increasingly digital world.
The second pivot came in 2001, with the truly
transformational decision to invest in T encent, a fledgling
Chinese internet company.  T encent remains one of the
very best enterprises in the world and we therefore remain
firmly committed to the investment. Followed by an
investment in Mail.ru in 2006, these early bets in the new
world of online lead to a period of intense investment
beyond the shores of Africa and into exciting markets as
diverse as Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and
the Middle East, and Asia.
T oday, Naspers companies and investments improve the lives
of hundreds of millions people in more than 120 countries
and markets across the world. They operate across print
and digital media, video entertainment (including the classic
pay TV model, digital terrestrial TV, and digital streaming)
and the internet, including marketplaces, online classifieds,
etail, travel, entertainment, payments and fintech, education
technology and food delivery. With nearly 20% of the
world’s population using the products and services of
companies Naspers has built and invested in, and many of
these customers using the products of more than one of its
companies, the group continues to look for innovative and
ambitious founders and businesses to back, particularly
those that address big societal needs.
The Naspers story
Innovating for a changing world
For over a century, Naspers has steadily grown from its
humble beginnings as a small newspaper publisher, by
investing in, acquiring and building leading companies with
sustainable competitive advantages.
T oday, Naspers is a global internet and entertainment group
and one of the largest technology investors in the world. But
the group stays true to its roots: it continues to back
innovative founders and businesses that it believes have the
potential to scale beyond their local market. Increasingly,
they address big societal needs using technology.
Naspers holds entrepreneurship at its heart. The group
constantly looks at the world around it, identifying the
changes and shifting trends it believes will shape the needs
and behaviours of both local communities and society at
large. In recent years, rapid technology innovation has
created and connected communities, enabled trade and
broken down borders, removed friction and added speed,
commoditised knowledge and delivered real-time news, and
of course entertained. In short it has played a key role in
empowering people and enriching communities. And in
todays connected world, the way people think, influence,
interact and live continues to evolve in unprecedented,
transformational ways.
Naspers was established in 1915 to produce a Dutch-language newspaper. From that starting point,
two pivotal moments – both leaps into brave new worlds – rede/f_ined the future of its business. Those
moments in time triggered the evolution from a print media business into a global internet and
entertainment group, and one of the largest technology investors in the world.

A commitment to contributing to the
global communities in which we operate
Over the years, Naspers has witnessed countless examples
where innovation and entrepreneurial spirit came together
to solve unique local challenges and address big societal
needs. And as a global company, it recognises the
importance of making a positive economic and social
contribution to communities in which we operate.
Enriching the lives of South Africans
Off screen, more than 90 000 black South Africans have
benefitted from MultiChoice’s broad-based black economic
empowerment (BBBEE) share scheme, Phuthuma Nathi.
A R2 000 investment at scheme launch was worth close to
R25 000 in 2016, having yielded a total dividend of R10 000
over that period. The scheme has paid out almost R6.5
billion in dividends since inception, changing the lives of
thousands of shareholders. Media24’s BBBEE share scheme
Welkom Yizani further affords thousands of black South
Africans the opportunity to own 15% of the company.
For over 100 years Media24 has produced content through
its newspapers, magazines, books, digital media and
multimedia that has kept South Africans informed of the
world around them.  Voted the media company most
graduates aspire to work by more than 2 000 graduates,
Media24 remains committed to equality, diversity and
transformation. And when you consider that Media24’s
digital platforms have over 12 million daily page views, it’s
clear this is a company looking ahead to the next 100 years.
MultiChoice is not only the provider of world class
TV-programmes, movies, sport, news and documentaries
across the African continent, it is also one of the biggest
contributors to the growth of the South African film and
television industry.
T ogether with M-Net, it include one the largest funders of
local content in Africa and through SuperSport, the biggest
funder of sport on the continent. MultiChoice believes in
the youth of South Africa, and through its corporate social
investment and skills development programmes, helps
young people realize their potential in sport, broadcasting,
and film-making. Through its flagship corporate social
investment programme, Media24 equips young South
Africans with digital skills by teaching them how to
use digital technologies to research and produce news
and information.
As part of its commitment to empowering women,
MultiChoice has implemented a Leading Women
programme with the Gordon Institute of Business to
develop women at a middle to senior management level.
Other initiatives include internal leadership development
programs, a Women in Business Program (Wimbiz) and a
Women Empowerment Program with the Lagos Business
School.
A meaningful place to work
It can be tempting to think that only founders can be
entrepreneurial. Over the years, Naspers has come to
believe that entrepreneurial spirit is actually just a mindset,
and anyone can have it. And sometimes you can’t just simply
cross your fingers and hope it happens, you have to give it a
helping hand. Opening the lines of communication is a good
first step. Ensuring everyone in the business understands
the big picture is key – if teams don’t know what they’re
trying to achieve, it’s less likely they’ll focus their creativity
and efforts on the right things.
Giving people the freedom to think for themselves and
challenge the status quo is important. Not just in terms of
how things are done within the organisation, but also in
terms of what the organisation is doing for its stakeholders
and customers. Encouraging everyone to stay close to the
people they serve and fully understand what they are trying
to achieve can spark all sorts of innovative ideas.
Encouraging and listening to ideas from across the
organisation about every aspect of the organisation can
open up new sources of innovation. In short, creativity is
everyone’s job.
Naspers has created a compelling place to work where
people are engaged and motivated to achieve their full
potential. The company employs nearly 25 000 people
across the world in fully-owned andmanagement-controlled
businesses. In South Africa the company employs more than
15 000 people in MultiChoice, Media24 and Takealot, and
thousands more indirectly through MultiChoice’s network
of more than 1200 accredited installers and 120 DStv
agencies. MultiChoice also backs emerging entrepreneurs.
Its enterprise and supplier development programme offers
various forms of support to small businesses, including
loans, favourable supplier payment terms and trading
opportunities. This commitment to enterprise development
creates jobs and delivers economic growth, which
ultimately ensures social upliftment in local communities.

Increasing access to education
Recent investments by Naspers into education technologies
like Codeacademy, Udemy and Brainly are helping to
redefine how education is accessed and delivered across
the world. These innovative online platforms are opening
the doors to learning for millions of people who previously
did not have access to education around the world –
people who face many barriers that prevent them from
learning and developing their skills in traditional classroom
or university environments.
Efficient transportation
Another example of how innovation and entrepreneurial
spirit merge to solve unique local challenges and address a
big societal need is redBus in India. This innovative
transportation app keeps India moving by digitally
Solving complex and challenging
problems that face the world
aggregating the nation’s vast number of bus routes and
timetables from a wide array of operators. Before redBus,
travellers faced the near-impossible task of manually piecing
together multistep journeys where some operators even
lacked official bus stops. redBus helps people get to work
on time, visit relatives, and enjoy pastimes with far less
hassle.  And that’s not all.
In addition to timetable and route data, redBus also
aggregates information on the experience delivered by each
of the bus companies. Customers can use this information
in their ticket purchase decisions, but by making this
information visible in one place, redBus also enables India’s
various bus companies to see what their competitors offer.
The result is that all the companies raise their game,
ultimately benefiting society at large. Naspers is helping
Our entrepreneurs, at the forefront of innovative technology
redBus scale beyond India, with expansion into Latin
America, Malaysia and Singapore – regions it believes can
also benefit from the company’s leading-edge technology.
Giving youth access to the work place
SuperSport’s Let’s Play, part of MultiChoice, has
benefitted millions of school children in South Africa
through various physical education programmes for over
10 years. On top of this, the MultiChoice Diski Challenge
– the Premier Soccer League reserve league – has
opened up opportunities for young footballers aspiring
to professional careers, while providing a learning
platform for over 40 interns, who produce the
broadcasting of the matches on SuperSport and
community television stations.
Retraining workforce with new skills
Naspers launched its online and offline learning
environment, MyAcademy, in September 2016 specifically
NASPERS
for its staff around the world. This year, more than
20 000 group employees accessed content on
MyAcademy online. MyAcademy offers the very
best online learning content from global providers
such as Udemy, Big Think, Harvard Business School,
Codecademy, Ready, Vado, and Rosetta Stone.
Naspers’ MyAcademy classroom-based
programmes offer its people the opportunity to
grow their leadership skills regardless of where
they are in the world. The company also focus on
developing key functional skills in the areas of
technology, sales and business development, finance,
law and human resources. This year more than
1 500 people attended such programmes, and from
around the group over 26 000 consumed online
lectures and engaged in more than 43 000 hours
of training on the platform.
Increasing access to education
Recent investments by Naspers into education technologies
like Codeacademy, Udemy and Brainly are helping to
redefine how education is accessed and delivered across
the world. These innovative online platforms are opening
the doors to learning for millions of people who previously
did not have access to education around the world –
people who face many barriers that prevent them from
learning and developing their skills in traditional classroom
or university environments.
Efficient transportation
Another example of how innovation and entrepreneurial
spirit merge to solve unique local challenges and address a
big societal need is redBus in India. This innovative
transportation app keeps India moving by digitally
aggregating the nation’s vast number of bus routes and
timetables from a wide array of operators. Before redBus,
travellers faced the near-impossible task of manually piecing
together multistep journeys where some operators even
lacked official bus stops. redBus helps people get to work
on time, visit relatives, and enjoy pastimes with far less
hassle.  And that’s not all.
In addition to timetable and route data, redBus also
aggregates information on the experience delivered by each
of the bus companies. Customers can use this information
in their ticket purchase decisions, but by making this
information visible in one place, redBus also enables India’s
various bus companies to see what their competitors offer.
The result is that all the companies raise their game,
ultimately benefiting society at large. Naspers is helping
redBus scale beyond India, with expansion into Latin
America, Malaysia and Singapore – regions it believes can
also benefit from the company’s leading-edge technology.
Giving youth access to the work place
SuperSport’s Let’s Play, part of MultiChoice, has
benefitted millions of school children in South Africa
through various physical education programmes for over
10 years. On top of this, the MultiChoice Diski Challenge
– the Premier Soccer League reserve league – has
opened up opportunities for young footballers aspiring
to professional careers, while providing a learning
platform for over 40 interns, who produce the
broadcasting of the matches on SuperSport and
community television stations.
Retraining workforce with new skills
Naspers launched its online and offline learning
environment, MyAcademy, in September 2016 specifically
for its staff around the world. This year, more than
20 000 group employees accessed content on
MyAcademy online. MyAcademy offers the very
best online learning content from global providers
such as Udemy, Big Think, Harvard Business School,
Codecademy, Ready, Vado, and Rosetta Stone.
Naspers’ MyAcademy classroom-based
programmes offer its people the opportunity to
grow their leadership skills regardless of where
they are in the world. The company also focus on
developing key functional skills in the areas of
technology, sales and business development, finance,
law and human resources. This year more than
1 500 people attended such programmes, and from
around the group over 26 000 consumed online
lectures and engaged in more than 43 000 hours
of training on the platform.
Eddie joined SuperSport as an intern
cameraman and his training there
prepared him for the broadcast industry.
The company was started with the
modest investment from their salaries
and in 2010, they received an interest-free
loan that allowed them to purchase their
first outside broadcast (OB) van. T oday,
the company owns three OB vans, a state
of the art pre- and post-production
facility, employs 70 people and produces a
variety of programmes for SuperSport.
The story of a company founded by Eddie Seane and Mafadi Mpuru in 2015

Increasing access to education
Recent investments by Naspers into education technologies
like Codeacademy, Udemy and Brainly are helping to
redefine how education is accessed and delivered across
the world. These innovative online platforms are opening
the doors to learning for millions of people who previously
did not have access to education around the world –
people who face many barriers that prevent them from
learning and developing their skills in traditional classroom
or university environments.
Efficient transportation
Another example of how innovation and entrepreneurial
spirit merge to solve unique local challenges and address a
big societal need is redBus in India. This innovative
transportation app keeps India moving by digitally
aggregating the nation’s vast number of bus routes and
timetables from a wide array of operators. Before redBus,
travellers faced the near-impossible task of manually piecing
together multistep journeys where some operators even
lacked official bus stops. redBus helps people get to work
on time, visit relatives, and enjoy pastimes with far less
hassle.  And that’s not all.
In addition to timetable and route data, redBus also
aggregates information on the experience delivered by each
of the bus companies. Customers can use this information
in their ticket purchase decisions, but by making this
information visible in one place, redBus also enables India’s
various bus companies to see what their competitors offer.
The result is that all the companies raise their game,
ultimately benefiting society at large. Naspers is helping
redBus scale beyond India, with expansion into Latin
America, Malaysia and Singapore – regions it believes can
also benefit from the company’s leading-edge technology.
Giving youth access to the work place
SuperSport’s Let’s Play, part of MultiChoice, has
benefitted millions of school children in South Africa
through various physical education programmes for over
10 years. On top of this, the MultiChoice Diski Challenge
– the Premier Soccer League reserve league – has
opened up opportunities for young footballers aspiring
to professional careers, while providing a learning
platform for over 40 interns, who produce the
broadcasting of the matches on SuperSport and
community television stations.
Retraining workforce with new skills
Naspers launched its online and offline learning
environment, MyAcademy, in September 2016 specifically
for its staff around the world. This year, more than
20 000 group employees accessed content on
MyAcademy online. MyAcademy offers the very
best online learning content from global providers
such as Udemy, Big Think, Harvard Business School,
Codecademy, Ready, Vado, and Rosetta Stone.
Naspers’ MyAcademy classroom-based
programmes offer its people the opportunity to
grow their leadership skills regardless of where
they are in the world. The company also focus on
developing key functional skills in the areas of
technology, sales and business development, finance,
law and human resources. This year more than
1 500 people attended such programmes, and from
around the group over 26 000 consumed online
lectures and engaged in more than 43 000 hours
of training on the platform.
Eddie joined SuperSport as an intern
cameraman and his training there
prepared him for the broadcast industry.
The company was started with the
modest investment from their salaries
and in 2010, they received an interest-free
loan that allowed them to purchase their
first outside broadcast (OB) van. T oday,
the company owns three OB vans, a state
of the art pre- and post-production
facility, employs 70 people and produces a
variety of programmes for SuperSport.
The story of a company founded by Eddie Seane and Mafadi Mpuru in 2015

Our formula for success
Fostering innovation
As a society, we need to recognise the importance of
promoting innovation as a key driver of social change. As a
company, Naspers understands its importance, and
recognises and rewards the best examples from across the
group. The Naspers Innovation Awards recognise people or
teams who have made a significant, positive and measurable
impact on their customers through a great innovation,
usually product or technology based.
This year’s prizes went to teams from OLX India for
innovative solutions in intelligent messaging templates;
MultiChoice for big data competency used for insights and
recommendations by products like DStv Now, and
designing a new advertising architecture, unique in the
world, which allows MultiChoice to effectively monetise
content; and Irdeto’s research team who used machine
learning (ML) to automatically process and identify streams
distributed by pirate aggregation sites to our classifieds and
ecommerce platforms. Their efforts, and the efforts of
countless other dreamers, thinkers, entrepreneurs,
innovators, developers and doers are transforming the lives
we live every day. They are at the forefront of the charge to
address big societal needs through innovation and Naspers
celebrates their success.
Movile is the top mobile commerce platform in Latin
America, with over 100 million users per month. Movile
develops world-class mobile marketplaces and is a leader
in B2C mobile app-based services in Latin America
including iFood and Sympla. A leading self-service ticketing
platform in Brazil, Sympla is a one-stop-shop for
entertainment and events in Latin America. Movile is also
ramping up its content distribution. It is one of the largest
distributors of kids’ content digitally in the world.
iFood, a subsidiary of Movile is a leading online food
delivery platform in Latin America, fulfilling more than six
million orders per month. In Brazil, iFood is the preferred
destination for food delivery. Another way of bringing
technology to a very important part of people’s lives -
eating at home and at work.
Competing globally
Naspers knew it had to respond to the rapidly changing
television viewing habits seen elsewhere in the world.  The
associated rise of subscription video on demand (SVOD)
was gathering pace and, with continued improvements in
internet connectivity in Africa, it was only a matter of time
before new entrants brought this service to our markets. It
was a chance between being disrupted by others, or taking
the initiative and disrupting itself first. The company
decided on the latter and built a leading-edge SVOD
business in the full knowledge it could well cannibalise its
existing pay TV interests. Naspers took ShowMax from
idea to full launch in just six months.
ShowMax vouchers are now available in more than 500
different retail stores. South Africa’s four main banks also
allow the linking of ShowMax subscriptions with their
customer loyalty programmes. ShowMax also works in
partnership with mobile equipment manufacturers and
internet service providers like T elkom, who offer an
entertainment data bolt-on.
In its first 15 months, ShowMax achieved well over
10 million views or, put another way, more than 700 years
of continuous viewing if watched back-to-back. Creating
downloadable content, enabling customers to apply data
usage caps, establish a cash voucher system, and
implementing multiple user profiles are some of the
tougher technical challenges that had to be solved. Our
founders are role models for our people across the globe;
they inspire us to not only have vision, but also innovate
to take calculated risk, and to push hard to pursue
our dreams.
Opportunities for emerging entrepreneurs
NASPERS
How an Argentinian entrepreneur
invested in India and is now leading a
classified innovation in the U.S.

When Alec co-founded OLX, he took what he
describes as the “Martian approach.” Most
entrepreneurs launch their business in their home
country– and city– because that’s what they know best.
But imagine you are a Martian looking down on the
world. As an unbiased extra-terrestrial, with no ties to
any particular region, you would take a different course.
Y ou would look at the whole world and choose the
optimal market to build your business. So despite being
Argentinian, Alec started with India.
Alec believes that people are far more similar around
the world than most realise: they may have different
day-to-day priorities and habits but, in the main,
virtually everyone is driven by the same motivations.
Chief among them is the desire to make life better for
themselves and their family. He believes OLX and let go
help people do this by enabling “wealth creation”,
making it easy to monetise personal possessions that
would otherwise sit unused, by selling them locally. But
his vision is bigger than creating successful, local trading
Helping local entrepreneurs scale their
businesses to compete in the global market
We identify, invest, and work with local entrepreneurs in order to
scale their businesses to the global market
Entrepreneurial spirit is the foundation of success at Naspers. And while we
believe entrepreneurial spirit is not the sole preserve of entrepreneurs –
anyone can have it – it is true that founders embody that spirit.  At Naspers
we’re fortunate that many of the founders of the businesses we have invested
in over the years remain part of our family, leading their companies through
the next waves of growth. Our founders are role models for our people across
the globe; they inspire us to not only have vision, but also innovate to take
calculated risks, and to push hard to pursue our dreams. It’s why we encourage
all our teams to act like founders. No founder embodies entrepreneurial spirit
more than Alec Oxenford.
Alec is the Argentinian co-founder of OLX and, more recently, Letgo, two
global classi/f_ieds businesses that we are proud to say are part of the Naspers
family. Alec perfectly represents what it means to have entrepreneurial spirit,
and has many unique views on pursuing dreams that we can all learn from.
economies on a global scale. Alec is passionate about
the role that OLX and Letgo play in solving the
world’s number one problem – excessive resource
consumption and pollution that have vastly negative
effects on the sustainability of the environment and
put life on the planet at risk.
We are inspired by Alec’s thinking and drive, which is
what led us to invest in him and OLX in 2010. Later
in 2015, following the successful growth and
expansion of OLX, Alec came to us with his idea for
Letgo, a mobile-only classifieds business. We back him
again and we’re excited by the past progress let is
already making in countries like the US, T urkey,
Canada and Norway. In September 2015, Alec was
awarded the inaugural Naspers Founder Award. He
remains chairman of OLX, but spends his days
focused on Letgo where, together with his partners –
Jordi Castello and Enrique Linares – he guides the
company’s vision and oversees operations, fundraising,
and key hires.

Our message is clear. If you want to promote
entrepreneurial spirit in your organization, a great
starting point in encouraging your people to act like
founders. Or put simply, be more Alec.
INDIA

How an Argentinian entrepreneur
invested in India and is now leading a
classified innovation in the U.S.

When Alec co-founded OLX, he took what he
describes as the “Martian approach.” Most
entrepreneurs launch their business in their home
country– and city– because that’s what they know best.
But imagine you are a Martian looking down on the
world. As an unbiased extra-terrestrial, with no ties to
any particular region, you would take a different course.
Y ou would look at the whole world and choose the
optimal market to build your business. So despite being
Argentinian, Alec started with India.
Alec believes that people are far more similar around
the world than most realise: they may have different
day-to-day priorities and habits but, in the main,
virtually everyone is driven by the same motivations.
Chief among them is the desire to make life better for
themselves and their family. He believes OLX and let go
help people do this by enabling “wealth creation”,
making it easy to monetise personal possessions that
would otherwise sit unused, by selling them locally. But
his vision is bigger than creating successful, local trading
Helping local entrepreneurs scale their
businesses to compete in the global market
We identify, invest, and work with local entrepreneurs in order to
scale their businesses to the global market
Entrepreneurial spirit is the foundation of success at Naspers. And while we
believe entrepreneurial spirit is not the sole preserve of entrepreneurs –
anyone can have it – it is true that founders embody that spirit.  At Naspers
we’re fortunate that many of the founders of the businesses we have invested
in over the years remain part of our family, leading their companies through
the next waves of growth. Our founders are role models for our people across
the globe; they inspire us to not only have vision, but also innovate to take
calculated risks, and to push hard to pursue our dreams. It’s why we encourage
all our teams to act like founders. No founder embodies entrepreneurial spirit
more than Alec Oxenford.
Alec is the Argentinian co-founder of OLX and, more recently, Letgo, two
global classi/f_ieds businesses that we are proud to say are part of the Naspers
family. Alec perfectly represents what it means to have entrepreneurial spirit,
and has many unique views on pursuing dreams that we can all learn from.
economies on a global scale. Alec is passionate about
the role that OLX and Letgo play in solving the
world’s number one problem – excessive resource
consumption and pollution that have vastly negative
effects on the sustainability of the environment and
put life on the planet at risk.
We are inspired by Alec’s thinking and drive, which is
what led us to invest in him and OLX in 2010. Later
in 2015, following the successful growth and
expansion of OLX, Alec came to us with his idea for
Letgo, a mobile-only classifieds business. We back him
again and we’re excited by the past progress let is
already making in countries like the US, T urkey,
Canada and Norway. In September 2015, Alec was
awarded the inaugural Naspers Founder Award. He
remains chairman of OLX, but spends his days
focused on Letgo where, together with his partners –
Jordi Castello and Enrique Linares – he guides the
company’s vision and oversees operations, fundraising,
and key hires.

Our message is clear. If you want to promote
entrepreneurial spirit in your organization, a great
starting point in encouraging your people to act like
founders. Or put simply, be more Alec.
INDIA

T
he Indian Ocean region is of
great strategic importance and
value to the world in which
we now find ourselves, and
it is of utmost importance to
safeguard and develop the
regionforthebenefitofallitspeoples.
The year 2018 was historic, as it was the
centenary year of the birth of former President
Nelson Mandela, regarded widely as the
founding father of the Indian Ocean Rim
Association (IORA). The formation of IORA
has its roots in Nelson Mandela’s remark in
1995:
“The natural urge of the facts of history
and geography should broaden itself to
include the concept of an Indian Ocean Rim
for socio-economic cooperation and other
peaceful endeavours.”
His vision became a reality two years
later when in March 1997, the Indian Ocean
Rim Association for Regional Cooperation
(IORA-ARC), now IORA, was launched in
Mauritius with 14 member states. Today, the
association has 21 member states and seven
dialogue partners. It has become a strong and
dynamic international body working to ensure
an Indian Ocean Rim that is safe, secure and
sustainably developed.
South Africa assumed the Chair of
IORA in October 2017, under the theme:
“IORA – Uniting the Peoples of Africa, Asia,
Australasia and the Middle East through
Enhanced Cooperation for Peace, Stability
and Sustainable Development”. This guiding
theme for our Chairship until October 2019
encompasses South Africa’s view that the
Indian Ocean region should be characterised
as a region of peace, stability and
development; and that we view IORA as the
pre-eminent regional organisation with which
to pursue this ambitious goal.
Maritime safety and security is a critical
component and precondition for the economic
activity and growth that is necessary for
sustainable socio-economic development.
As we move forward in this regard, it is
important to recognise that South Africa did
not assume the Chair in a vacuum.  We are
building on a solid foundation laid by other
important strategic partners in the region that
have led IORA recently such as Indonesia,
Australia, India and Iran.
During India’s Chair of the association
from 2011 to 2013, the work of IORA was
streamlined and invigorated to become more
focussed and targeted towards the sustained
growth and balanced development of the
Indian Ocean region and of member states,
and to create common ground for regional
economic cooperation.
IORA pursuing peace,
stability and development
By Luwellyn Landers
Deputy Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation
Maritime safety and security is a critical
component and precondition for the economic
activity and growth that is necessary for
sustainable socio-economic development
.
48
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | IORA PURSUING PEACE, STABILITY AND DEVELOPMENT

IORA subsequently adopted the following six
key priority areas:
• Maritime Safety and Security
• Trade and Investment Facilitation
• Fisheries Management
• Disaster Risk Management
• Academic and Science and Technology
Cooperation
• Tourism Promotion and Cultural Exchange.
During Australia’s Chair from 2013 – 2015,
the association changed its name from the
IOR-ARC to IORA, signifying this renewed
vigour in the work of the association. Australia
also enhanced the strategic focus of IORA
through the adoption of the Blue Economy
and women’s economic empowerment as
agreed priority issues that cut across the
aforementioned key priority areas.
During Indonesia’s Chair from 2015 to
2017, the first IORA Leaders’ Summit to
commemorate IORA’s 20th anniversary was
held in Jakarta on 7 March 2017. The summit’s
adoption and signing of the Jakarta Concord
elevatedtheassociation’sprofileandstature
toasignificantlyhigherlevel,andchartedthe
way forward for IORA into the next decade,
beginning with South Africa’s Chairship. To
this end, the Jakarta Concord provides the
highest levels of commitment with which to
make the Indian Ocean a region of peace,
stability and development through enhanced
cooperation, including but not limited to the
six priority areas.
TheIORAActionPlanprovidesafirmset
of realistic and measurable commitments for
the IORA Council of Ministers to implement
the Jakarta Concord, and take IORA forward
in a more outcomes-orientated manner.
To this end, the Action Plan provides
short-, medium- and long-terms goals to,
among others:
• promote maritime safety and security in
the region
• enhance trade and investment
cooperation in the region
• promote sustainable and responsible
fisheriesmanagementanddevelopment
• strengthen academic, science and
technology cooperation
• foster tourism and cultural exchanges
• harness and develop the Blue Economy
in the region
• promote gender equality and the
economic empowerment of women and
girls.
To give effect to these targets, IORA, under
South Africa’s Chairship, is strengthening
its institutional mechanisms and bodies,
including the Secretariat, and is in the process
of establishing new dedicated functional
bodies to deal specifically with critical
priorities in areas such as maritime safety
and security, the Blue Economy, women’s
economic empowerment and tourism. There
is also a strong focus on enhancing trade
and investment between IORA members;
empowering the youth; ensuring the effective
utilisation of resources, such as water
and fisheries; and promoting research,
development and innovation, including
through the second International Indian
Ocean Expedition. The focus on key priorities
and the establishment of these new bodies
will enable IORA to have a comprehensive
set of work plans to deal with the challenges
being faced in the region, as well as to take
advantage of the many opportunities that
these areas bring to the fore. We are on a new
and exciting trajectory and we look forward to
working with our partners to explore these
opportunities in a coherent and organised
way.
In this regard, South Africa is deepening
and broadening its engagement with the IORA
dialogue partners to enhance their role in and
support for the core objectives in the IORA
Action Plan. The unprecedented interest in
IORA among countries wishing to be dialogue
partners is testament to the progress that we
are making in taking IORA forward as the
pre-eminent international organisation in the
Indian Ocean.
Furthermore, South Africa is committed
to deepening and strengthening IORA’s
partnerships with international and regional
bodies such as the United Nations (UN), the
African Union (AU), Association of Southeast
Asian Nations, Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation as well as other important
maritime bodies and symposia focussing on
theIndianOcean.Weareparticularlygratified
that IORA has observer status at both the UN
General Assembly and the AU, and we look
forward to strengthening our engagements
with these important organs, particularly
cooperation on development in the areas of
capacity- and institution-building under the
IORA Action Plan.
In the case of the UN, for instance, we are
collaborating with agencies and bodies such
as the Food and Agricultural Organisation
and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic
CommissionoftheUNEducational,Scientific
and Cultural Organisation for the exchange
and dissemination of ocean data and
information.Weareintheprocessoffinalising
a Memorandum of Understanding with the
UN Institute for Training and Research. This
cooperation and collaboration are in support
of the UN’s Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), particularly
SDG14 to conserve and sustainably use
the oceans, seas and marine resources for
sustainable development.
Furthermore, as one of the many African
countries of IORA, we are committed to
working with the AU in support of Agenda
2063 towards a prosperous Africa based
on inclusive growth and sustainable
development. It is important to recognise
that the AU has declared 2015 to 2025 as
the Decade of African Seas and Oceans. We
look forward to identify ways to collaborate
between IORA and the AU around the 2050
Africa Integrated Maritime Strategy – Africa’s
overarching, concerted and coherent long-
term actions to achieve the objectives to
enhance maritime viability for a prosperous
Africa.
Likewise, at the regional level in southern
Africa, the Southern African Development
Community is moving towards a strategy
to develop a thriving maritime economy
and harness the full potential of sea-based
activities in an environmentally sustainable
manner.
IORA is an organisation on the move and
one that cannot and should not be ignored.
The Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Luwellyn
Landers, participated in the Third
Indian Ocean Conference from 27 to
28 August 2018, in Hanoi, Vietnam.
The conference under the theme,
“Building Regional Architecture”, was
organised by the India Foundation,
in association with its partners, the
Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam, the
S Rajaratnam School of International
Studies of Singapore and the
Bangladesh Institute of International
and Strategic Studies.
South Africa as the current Chair
of the Indian Ocean Rim Association
encompasses the view that the Indian
Ocean region should be characterised
as a region of peace, stability and
development within which to pursue
the goal of promoting socio-economic
cooperation for the well-being and
development of the countries and
peoples of the Indian Ocean Rim.
i
49
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
IORA PURSUING PEACE, STABILITY AND DEVELOPMENT | DIPLOMACY

Where nearly two million hectares of
unrivalled diversity of life forms fuse with
historical and archaeological sights, the
world-renowned Kruger National Park offers
a wildlife experience that ranks with the best
in Africa. It is home to over 500 bird species,
100 reptile species, nearly 150 mammal
species, multiple archaeological sites and a
diversityoftreesandflowers.
50
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

51
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

Caring
for life
Purpose Inspired
We pride ourselves on a strong
legacy of crusading care. Cipla
played a pioneering role in HIV/
AIDS treatment globally as the
first company to reduce the
cost of ARVs to less than one
dollar a day, thereby improving
the lives of millions of patients.
We strive to find solutions that
deliver on our ethos of
“Caring for Life”.
Excellence focussed
Cipla believes everyone has the
right to world-class medication
at affordable prices. Our unique
formulations enable us to
produce medicines of superior
quality across a diverse range
of therapeutic categories.
Innovation Driven
As part of our commitment
to manufacturing in Africa for
Africa, Cipla is expanding our
local manufacturing footprint.
Our state-of-the-art factories
in Uganda and South Africa,
along with other manufacturing
facilities worldwide, have the
stamps of approval from all the
main regulators and enable us
to advance healthcare for all.
“Our work is not
just about making
medicines. It is
about making a
difference.”
- Dr YK Hamied, Cipla chairman
 Miles for Smiles creates awareness
and raises funds for Operation
Smile to facilitate corrective surgery
on children born with cleft lip and
cleft palates.
Owethu focuses on providing
access to a broad range of
primary healthcare services to
communities most in need.
Ajuga creates a safe
environment where young
children can learn, grow
and thrive.
Sha’p Left is a nurse-driven
primary healthcare service that
treats people close to home in
their communities.
2,500
smiles
R8.7
million
raised since 2006
5 ECDs
3 crèches
since 2012
8 urban nurse surgeries
since 2014
2 clinics
since 2014
3 rural nurse surgeries
Social responsibility has been at the core
of Cipla, since inception. It mirrors Cipla’s
relentless commitment to improve lives and
aims to build access and affordability for the
most vulnerable groups in society. The Cipla
Foundation has initiatives spanning healthcare,
education and enterprise development with its
aim to improve life for all South Africans.
For more information or to get involved,
visit www.ciplafoundationsa.co.za

Caring
for life
Purpose Inspired
We pride ourselves on a strong
legacy of crusading care. Cipla
played a pioneering role in HIV/
AIDS treatment globally as the
first company to reduce the
cost of ARVs to less than one
dollar a day, thereby improving
the lives of millions of patients.
We strive to find solutions that
deliver on our ethos of
“Caring for Life”.
Excellence focussed
Cipla believes everyone has the
right to world-class medication
at affordable prices. Our unique
formulations enable us to
produce medicines of superior
quality across a diverse range
of therapeutic categories.
Innovation Driven
As part of our commitment
to manufacturing in Africa for
Africa, Cipla is expanding our
local manufacturing footprint.
Our state-of-the-art factories
in Uganda and South Africa,
along with other manufacturing
facilities worldwide, have the
stamps of approval from all the
main regulators and enable us
to advance healthcare for all.
“Our work is not
just about making
medicines. It is
about making a
difference.”
- Dr YK Hamied, Cipla chairman
 Miles for Smiles creates awareness
and raises funds for Operation
Smile to facilitate corrective surgery
on children born with cleft lip and
cleft palates.
Owethu focuses on providing
access to a broad range of
primary healthcare services to
communities most in need.
Ajuga creates a safe
environment where young
children can learn, grow
and thrive.
Sha’p Left is a nurse-driven
primary healthcare service that
treats people close to home in
their communities.
2,500
smiles
R8.7
million
raised since 2006
5 ECDs
3 crèches
since 2012
8 urban nurse surgeries
since 2014
2 clinics
since 2014
3 rural nurse surgeries
Social responsibility has been at the core
of Cipla, since inception. It mirrors Cipla’s
relentless commitment to improve lives and
aims to build access and affordability for the
most vulnerable groups in society. The Cipla
Foundation has initiatives spanning healthcare,
education and enterprise development with its
aim to improve life for all South Africans.
For more information or to get involved,
visit www.ciplafoundationsa.co.za

T
he International Telecommunication
Union (ITU) Telecom World
Conference was held in September
2018 at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli
International Convention Centre in Durban. It
was an honour for the Government and the
people of South Africa to host this event for the
firsttimeontheAfricancontinent.
For South Africa, the ITU Telecom World
provides a guide to the future. The deliberations
that took place there concern the economy and
society of tomorrow that we are building today.
Digital revolution should respond to
the needs of the developing world
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
We have the means and the responsibility to direct the evolution
of information and communications technology towards the
achievement of a better life for all the peoples of the world
.
We are at the dawn of a digital revolution that
will reshape the way we work, the way we live
and the way we relate to each other.
Technological change is proceeding at a
pace far greater than anything humanity has
experienced before.
It is through forums like this that we are able
not only to anticipate technological change,
but also to harness it for the advancement of
humanity.
It is through bodies like the ITU that we craft
a digital agenda for inclusivity, sustainability
and development.
We have the means and the responsibility
to direct the evolution of information and
communications technology (ICT) towards
the achievement of a better life for all the
peoples of the world.
It is our task to ensure that the Fourth
Industrial Revolution improves the human
condition and that no one is left behind.
It is our task to ensure that this digital
revolution responds to the needs of the
developing world.
54
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

with a great opportunity to overcome digital
exclusion and to drive inclusive growth and
innovation.
Government has recently decided to
accelerate the licensing of the radio frequency
spectrum in the 2.6Ghz, 700Mhz and 800Mhz
bands to hasten the growth of mobile
communications.
We have finalised consultations with
the telecommunications industry and other
stakeholders to ensure allocation of spectrum
reduces barriers to entry, promotes competition
and reduces costs to consumers.
Following a Cabinet decision in August
2018, the Independent Communications
Authority of South Africa is preparing to license
available high demand spectrum.
In addition, we have begun work in
preparation for 5G spectrum licensing as part
of our efforts to build a smarter digital economy.
In 2018, government announced plans
to establish a Digital Industrial Revolution
Commission to ensure we are in a position to
seize the opportunities of the rapid advances
in ICT.
We are informed by research that
associates investment in ICTs with such
economic benefits as higher productivity,
lower costs, new economic opportunities, job
creation, innovation and increased trade.
ICT also helps provide better services in
health and education and strengthens social
cohesion.
Our work in this area coincides with
agreement on the establishment of an African
Continental Free Trade Area, which will create
a single market of over a billion people.
At the Plenipotentiary of the African
Telecommunications Union, held in August in
Nairobi, South Africa was mandated to lead
a five-country committee to coordinate the
development of the continental response to
the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
This is a task that we undertake in support
of the African Union’s Agenda 2063, which
seeks a continent with diverse and inclusive
economies, advanced infrastructure and a
skilled and capable population.
In promoting this vision, we see a key role
for technology.
It must assist in overcoming unemployment,
not exacerbate it. It must bridge the digital
divide, not widen it. It must employ the latest
in ICT and data analytics to solve some of the
world’s greatest development challenges.
The decisions we make now, as individual
countries and as a global collective, will
determine whether the Fourth Industrial
Revolution is the opportunity that so many
people anticipate or the threat that so many
people fear.
As our economies become increasingly
dependent on ICT, it is critical that
governments work more closely with industry
to maximise the value of digital innovations.
It is equally critical that both government
and industry develop effective collaborative
relationships with the communities they are
both expected to serve.
It is such relationships that are required,
for example, for the accelerated rollout of
broadband in areas that are generally seen
as not being economically viable. And yet, the
presence of broadband in such areas is vital
for the viability of the economy.
The rapid expansion of broadband reach
and accessibility is a priority in South Africa
because it is a key determinant of economic
inclusion. There are currently 20 million South
Africans who do not use the Internet, for a
range of reasons such as unaffordable data
prices, lack of Internet-enabled devices and
lack of access.
Yet, about 87% of households in South Africa
have access to mobile phones, presenting us
We have finalised
consultations with the
telecommunications
industry and other
stakeholders to ensure
allocation of spectrum
reduces barriers to entry,
promotes competition
and reduces costs to
consumers.
55
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIGITAL REVOLUTION SHOULD RESPOND TO THE NEEDS OF THE DEVELOPING WORLD | DIPLOMACY

It was precisely this – the developmental
role of technology – that South Africa’s
founding President Nelson Mandela
affirmed when he addressed the Seventh
World Telecommunications Conference and
ExhibitioninGenevain1995.Itwasthefirst
year that South Africa participated in the
global event as a full member of the ITU.
 In his speech, President Mandela said
it was crucial for South Africa and the entire
African continent to be part of the organisation
that would drive international policy,
technological development, cooperation and
skills transfer.
Let us be guided by his vision of a world
in which everyone is connected, not only by
technology, but also by a common humanity.
Since rejoining the ITU, South Africa
has worked with other member countries
to advocate for the transformation of
the institution and the entire global
communications landscape to promote
equality and inclusivity.
In the World Summit on Information
Society, held in Geneva in 2003 and Tunis in
2005, we advocated for a people-centred and
development-oriented information society,
where citizens’ lives are enhanced by ICTs
and member states are recognised on an
equal footing.
We continue to champion the Internet as
a tool for social and economic development.
We support universal broadband and
universal broadcasting to connect all
citizens and ensure that they have access to
information.
Most recently, we have advocated for the
safety of ICT infrastructure and secure use by
all online.
Important to Africa and developing
countries is the need for countries to share
manufacturing and localisation opportunities
to allow equal access and shared growth
throughout the world.
We support equitable access to global ICT
resources such as orbital slots, satellites and
governance of the Internet.
Wefirmlybelievethatthereisastrong
correlation between innovation and growth.
South Africa recently embarked on an
investment drive to attract US$100 billion in
new investment in the country over the next
fiveyears.
This is part of a broader effort to set
the economy on a new path of growth,
employment and transformation.
We are determined that the ICT sector
be an integral part of this investment drive,
with a focus on infrastructure investment,
e-commerce, local manufacturing of
equipment and innovation. South Africa
has demonstrated its capabilities in the
development and deployment of ICT.
Telecom World 2018 produced innovative
solutions to societal challenges and establish
a platform for greater inclusive growth.
56
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | DIGITAL REVOLUTION SHOULD RESPOND TO THE NEEDS OF THE DEVELOPING WORLD
Our value proposition
We create social capital through world-class and eﬃcient services and social beneﬁts.
We develop human capital through eﬀective human capital and engaging our citizens.
We enhance global capital by positioning South Africa as a recognised global space citizen.
We support intellectual capital through cutting-edge research, development, innovation, technologyand its applications.
We grow economic capital by participating competitively in the global space industry and developmentof space applications.
Space
Science
We are recognised as being the national
expert in space science research, space
weather and magnetic technology
applications and services.  As part of the
worldwide network of magnetic
observatories we are responsible for
research, infrastructure and date
used to monitor the near-Earth
space environment.
Human Capital
Development
We train South Africans in key areas of
national importance, develop scarce and
transferable skills and contribute to
transforming the country into a
knowledge-based economy
Earth
Observations
We drive and coordinate South
Africa’s Earth observation
eﬀorts to sustainably beneﬁt
all South Africans in an
earthfriendly manner.
Space
Advancement
We increase the uptake and
appreciation of science among our
youth and improve the overall
scientiﬁc literacy and
engagement of the
general public.
Space
Engineering
We lead the technical development
of space systems and sub-systems by
operating a national assembly,
integration and test (AIT) facility
and supply related services
locally and internationally.
Space
Operations
We provide state-of-the-art ground
station facilities and services, including
satellite tracking, telemetry and
command as well as launch
support,  n-orbit testing, mission
control and satellite-based
navigation.

57
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIGITAL REVOLUTION SHOULD RESPOND TO THE NEEDS OF THE DEVELOPING WORLD | DIPLOMACY
Our value proposition
We create social capital through world-class and eﬃcient services and social beneﬁts.
We develop human capital through eﬀective human capital and engaging our citizens.
We enhance global capital by positioning South Africa as a recognised global space citizen.
We support intellectual capital through cutting-edge research, development, innovation, technologyand its applications.
We grow economic capital by participating competitively in the global space industry and developmentof space applications.
Space
Science
We are recognised as being the national
expert in space science research, space
weather and magnetic technology
applications and services.  As part of the
worldwide network of magnetic
observatories we are responsible for
research, infrastructure and date
used to monitor the near-Earth
space environment.
Human Capital
Development
We train South Africans in key areas of
national importance, develop scarce and
transferable skills and contribute to
transforming the country into a
knowledge-based economy
Earth
Observations
We drive and coordinate South
Africa’s Earth observation
eﬀorts to sustainably beneﬁt
all South Africans in an
earthfriendly manner.
Space
Advancement
We increase the uptake and
appreciation of science among our
youth and improve the overall
scientiﬁc literacy and
engagement of the
general public.
Space
Engineering
We lead the technical development
of space systems and sub-systems by
operating a national assembly,
integration and test (AIT) facility
and supply related services
locally and internationally.
Space
Operations
We provide state-of-the-art ground
station facilities and services, including
satellite tracking, telemetry and
command as well as launch
support,  n-orbit testing, mission
control and satellite-based
navigation.

W
e are facing the
greatest threat to
our existence. This
threat does not
come from nuclear
weapons alone, but
in the main, is as a result of the creeping new
ideology of unilateralism. As we deal with
the threat of nuclear and how best to arrest
it, we must be vigilant against the menace
ofunilateralismthatisinstarkconflictand
pointed contradiction to our survival and
humanity.
ItissignificanttorecallthatSouthAfrica’s
struggle for political freedom was closely linked
to the campaign for nuclear disarmament,
including the elimination of the apartheid
nuclear bomb. The eventual abandonment
of the nuclear weapons programme by
South Africa is testimony to the principled
stance of the overwhelming majority of South
Africans against nuclear weapons and their
elimination.
Givenitsuniquehistoryasthefirstcountry
to have eliminated its nuclear weapons,
South Africa is proud to have been able to
play a role in the creation of the Treaty on the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, together with
its partners in Austria, Brazil, Ireland, Mexico
and Nigeria. We also thank the International
Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons and
the vast majority of states and members of
civil society that actively contributed to the
process and the adoption of the treaty in July
2017.
South Africa’s signature of the treaty
reflectsitscontinuedcommitmenttowardsthe
achievement of a world free from the threat
posed by nuclear weapons and ensuring that
nuclear energy is used for peaceful purposes
only.Oursignatureisalsoafittingtributeto
the values espoused by the late President
of the African National Congress, Oliver
Reginald Tambo. Already in 1987, as a guest
of honour at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial,
Mr Tambo wrote the following inscription in
the Guest Book:
“History chose the city of Hiroshima to tell
the world never again to go to war, never ever
to abandon the struggle for peace. The tragic
By Luwellyn Landers
Deputy Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation
Towards achieving a world
free from the threat posed by
nuclear weapons
South Africa’s signature of the treaty reflects its
continued commitment towards the achievement
of a world free from the threat posed by nuclear
weapons and ensuring that nuclear energy is used
for peaceful purposes only
.
58
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

story of Hiroshima told in this painful museum
is a guide to present and future generations if
mankind and our planet are to be saved from
complete obliteration.”
While we celebrate this historic
achievement, we are fully aware that the
Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons
is but one piece of the puzzle.
While the treaty is neither the proverbial
silver bullet nor the final word on nuclear
weapons, it seeks to establish an international
norm, delegitimising and stigmatising the
possession of nuclear arms. It aims to
contribute towards achieving the objective set
outintheveryfirstresolutionadoptedbythe
United Nations General Assembly in 1946 to
eliminate all weapons of mass destruction.
The treaty complements other international
instrumentsbycontributingtowardsfulfilling
the nuclear disarmament obligations under
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the
objectives of the Comprehensive Nuclear
Test-Ban Treaty and the various nuclear
weapon-free zone treaties, such as the
Pelindaba Treaty that already banned nuclear
weapons in Africa.
For South Africa, the negotiation and
entry into force of the Pelindaba Treaty is a
true reflection of whatAfrican states have
achieved in pursuance of our common
security objectives. The treaty provides
tangible security benefits to us all and
effectively bans nuclear weapons on the
continent, while recognising the rights of state
parties to utilise the atom for peace and make
full use of nuclear technologies to enhance
their social and economic development.
As if the threat of nuclear weapons is
not enough, we also face the prospect of
the development of weapons, which once
activated, could select and engage targets
without human control. This category of
weapons has been termed Lethal Autonomous
Weapons Systems (LAWS).
Although it would appear as though
the dictum is that LAWS do not currently
exist, it is certainly true that as a result of
technological innovation, certain critical
functions in weapons systems currently
operate autonomously. The danger exists that
should this trend in research development
continues without being regulated, it follows
that humans will be removed from the loop
of control. Thus permitting machines to
determine targets in warfare.
In continuing this trend in weapons
development, a range of humanitarian, ethical,
legal and technological considerations arise.
In this regard, an important consideration
relating to it is that if human control is removed,
the attribution of responsibility for breaches as
applicable to current legal provisions will not
be possible. In addition, limits on autonomy
in weapon systems should be established
to ensure International Humanitarian Law
compliance and to satisfy ethical concerns.
In 2018, we celebrated the centenary of the
late President NeIson Mandela under whose
leadership South Africa drove its progressive
post-democratic nuclear disarmament order.
Let us pay tribute to Madiba’s legacy by
showing a clear demonstration of our collective
and unwavering commitment towards a
continent that is peaceful, stable, secure and
prosperous – but also to international peace
and security.
59
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

60
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

Lying in the shadow of a continuous belt of Cape fold mountains,
are a series of generous valleys known as the Cape Winelands
– a collection of historic towns, little hamlets and Cape Dutch
farmsteads that provide well-regarded South African wines to the
world.
61
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

I
n July 2018, the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) launched the Travel Smart
with DIRCO Campaign, which will go
a long way in improving the general
understanding of the consular services
the department provides to South Africans at
home and abroad.
DIRCO, through the Chief Directorate:
Consular Services, is mandated with
rendering assistance and support to the
public, working closely in collaboration with
its diplomatic and consular representatives
abroad. As such, the colleagues responsible
for carrying out this mandate on a daily basis
are in the coldface of service delivery like any
other line-function department.
The only difference between DIRCO and
other departments is that it functions largely
in the purview of foreign relations, however,
its work is aimed at improving the living
conditions of South Africans. DIRCO renders
consular services in accordance with Articles
5, 36 and 37 of the Vienna Convention on
Consular Relations (VCCR) of 1963 and  is
guided by its own legislative prescripts. The
VCCRisthereforethefirstandtodatethe
mostimportantdocumentintheconsularfield
and provides the judicial basis and general
framework for provision of consular services
by member states.
Since the VCCR came into effect in 1963,
consular services across the globe had to adapt
and innovate, and develop new practices and
responses to meet contemporary challenges
of the “global citizen”. As such, the Global
Consular Forum (GCF) was established for
member countries to meet annually in order
to collaborate, network, share ideas and also
provide consular updates. In January 2018,
South Africa was appointed as a Steering
Committee member of the GCF.
Consular Diplomacy today requires an
ongoing sharing of ideas, best practices and
innovations, collaboration in areas such as
crisis response, training and possibly some
joint activities and research to advance the
legal and policy framework that supports
consular relations
Ourconsularofficialsarerequiredtotreat
and provide quality assistance whenever a
crises or need.
Travel smart
with DIRCO
By Reginah Mhaule
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
We urge people when travelling to take time to learn about the
financial, political, cultural and economic environment of their
intended destination
.
64
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

We continue to work with our own sister
departments such as Home Affairs, Social
Development and the South African Police
Service to help us in their areas of expertise.
Furthermore, the Vienna Convention
grants our officials the right to access the
citizens in distress. It is therefore advisable
for people travelling abroad to make the
necessary arrangements with the department
so that they can be of assistance in times
of need. Citizens also have to make the
necessary financial provisions for any
eventuality that may occur. We urge travel
agencies to assist us in this regard. In 2018,
DIRCO had to deal with the arrest of 51 of our
citizens for violation of the visa laws in China,
among others. We are of the opinion that this
situation could have been avoided had the
necessary information been readily available.
We urge people when travelling to take
time to learn about the financial, political,
cultural and economic environment of their
intended destination. We encourage people
to learn at least a few key phrases in the
host country’s language. Even a modest
command of the local language will go a long
way. When travelling abroad, the laws of the
receiving country apply to everybody and
South Africans must understand that they will
not receive special treatment.
South Africans are encouraged to have the
contact details of the nearest South African
Representative Office and to carry contact
details of their next of kin at all times.
It is important that those planning to travel
familiarise themselves with the information
that is readily available on the DIRCO website,
www.dirco.gov.za, to read more on what is
needed when travelling and also on where the
nearestSouthAfricanRepresentativeOffice
is based at your intended destination.
Travel tips
Take time to learn about your destination. By
doing your homework before you leave, you
minimise the chances of something going
wrong.
• Take note of news reports of any
problems in the area you will be/are
visiting.
• Get full travel insurance or an overseas
health plan. If you do not take out proper
insurance, you will have to pay the costs
of any emergency yourself, including
expensive medical bills. (Your travel
agent will advise you on the options
available to suit your budget.)
• At least six weeks before you travel,
check with your doctor or travel clinic
what vaccinations and other health
precautions you may need to take for
your trip.
• If you have a medical condition, or are
pregnant, you should seek medical
advice from your physician prior to travel.
• If you have a pre-existing medical
condition that could present a problem
while you are travelling, it is advisable to
wear a Medic Alert bracelet containing
basic vital medical information, which
is essential in the case of emergency
medical treatment. For further information,
refer to the website of Medic Alert South
Africa – www.medicalert.co.za.
• If you require medication for an existing
medical condition, take a sufficient
supply of prescribed medicine with
you and keep it handy. Find out if your
prescription medication is legal in the
countries you plan to visit. Check the
website of the country you are visiting.
In certain countries, over-the-counter
medication is prohibited e.g. codeine is
a banned substance in certain countries.
Keep all medication in its original,
labelled containers. Carry a copy of the
doctor’s prescription with you. If syringes
areneeded,haveamedicalcertificate
stating their use.
65
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

• Essential medication should be stored
in hand luggage to ensure availability in
cases where luggage is delayed, lost or
stolen.
• If you have prescription spectacles,
carry a copy of the prescription for easy
replacement should you lose or break
them.
• Make sure your passport is valid for the
whole period of the travel and in good
condition, and that you have all the
necessary visas/permits.
• Fill in the next-of-kin details in your
passport.
• Registration of South African Citizens
Abroad via the website www.dirco.gov.
za. By registering your trip, you assist
DIRCO to locate you during a declared
emergency, thus verifying your status
and liaising with your next-of-kin. The
registration is a free, voluntary service
provided by government, through
DIRCO.
• Leave copies of your passport,
insurance policy (plus the insurer’s 24-
hour emergency number), ticket details,
your itinerary and contact details with
your family and friends.
• Take enough money for your trip and
some back-up funds, such as traveller’s
cheques or credit cards. Before you
leave,findouthowyoucanreplaceyour
traveller’s cheques and credit cards if
you lose them, and keep a separate note
of their numbers.
• Before you travel, get a good guidebook
and get to know your destination. Find
out about local laws and customs, and
follow them. Be aware of your personal
security and take sensible precautions to
protect yourself.
• Always lock luggage, not only to
discourage theft but also to make sure it
does not open during handling. Buy small
locks to lock all external zipper pockets
of bags. This will also protect you against
others slipping illegal substances into
your luggage. Little plastic cable ties are
invaluable, as they have to be cut to be
opened.
• Never carry luggage, a package or
letters for someone else, unless you
have been able to verify the contents
completely. Pack your own baggage,
fasten it securely and never leave
it unattended. Keep an eye on your
children’s backpacks, toys and stuffed
animals.
• Do not be tempted to use drugs. While
illegal drugs are readily available and
openly used in many countries, the
fact remains that they are dangerous
and illegal. When caught, you can face
lengthy jail sentences and/or the death
penalty.
• For information about what you are
allowed to take out of the country or
bring home to South Africa, contact the
South African Revenue Service (SARS)
– www.sars.gov.za. If you want take out
more than your travel allowance, you will
need to get exchange control permission
from the South African Reserve Bank.
Who can DIRCO help?
• South African citizens and permanent
residents.
• Dual nationals, provided they have
entered the country in question on their
South African passport and they are not
in the country of the second nationality.
If you are a dual national travelling on
your South African passport in a third
state (that is, a country of which you are
not a national), DIRCO will offer you its
full support. If you are travelling on the
passport of your other nationality, we will
direct you to that state’s local Embassy,
High Commission or Consulate.
What can DIRCO do?
DIRCOoffernon-financialassistance,which
is appropriate to the individual circumstances
of each case, including:
• issuing replacement travel documents
against the payment of the prescribed
fee after verifying citizenship (in cases of
lost South African passports)
• providingappropriatehelp(non-financial
assistance) if you have suffered serious
assault, are a victim of other crimes, or
are in hospital
• providing details of local law
commissions, interpreters, doctors and
funeral parlours (without assuming
responsibility for their effectiveness or
costs thereto)
• contacting you as soon as possible after
being informed (dependent on local
circumstances) that you have been
detained
• non-financial assistance to families of
deceased persons
• consular notarial functions (e.g.
legalisation of South African public
documents for use abroad and providing
Commissioner of Oaths services).
When travelling abroad
the laws of the receiving
country apply to everybody
and South Africans must
understand that they
will not receive special
treatment
.
66
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | TRAVEL SMART WITH DIRCO

What DIRCO cannot do?
• Get you out of prison, prevent the local
authorities from deporting you after your
prison sentence or interfere in criminal or
civil court proceedings.
• Help you enter a country, for example, if
you do not have a visa or your passport
is not valid, as we do not interfere in
another country’s immigration policy or
procedures.
• Give you legal advice, investigate crimes
or carry out searches for missing people.
• Get you better treatment in hospital or
prison than is given to local people.
• Pay any bills or give you money.
• Make travel arrangements for you, or
findyouworkoraccommodation.
• Make business arrangements on your
behalf.
• Assist with transfer of funds to a national
who is not in distress.
• Return a child that has been abducted
by a parent/family member.
When you are at your destination
• Only carry as much money as you need
for the day. Leave the rest (jewellery
and valuables), and at least one credit
card, in the hotel safe if one is available.
Keep copies of your passport, insurance
details and other important travel
documents separate from the originals.
• Have the contact details of the
local South African Embassy, High
Commission or Consulate for the country
you are visiting.
• Whenyouarrive,findouthowtogetin
touch with the local emergency services
in case you need them during your stay.
• Stay in regular touch with your family
and friends in South Africa, especially if
you are travelling alone or in a remote
area.
• You must respect local laws. There are
very serious penalties for breaking a
law which might seem trivial to you or
for doing something which may not be
illegal in South Africa.
• Respect the host country’s local customs
and behave and dress appropriately,
particularly when visiting religious sites,
markets and rural communities.
• Ensure that what you are bringing back
to South Africa is legal.
• Be aware of local attitudes to alcohol
and know your own limit.
• Be aware of what may happen if you
become involved with drugs abroad.
• Choose your travel companions wisely.
If your fellow travellers happen to be
carrying, using or selling illegal drugs,
you could be found guilty by association.
• If your luggage appears to have been
tampered with, be cautious and rather
callacustomsofficialorasecurityguard
and report the matter.
For more information, visit www.dirco.gov.za
67
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
TRAVEL SMART WITH DIRCO | DIPLOMACY

A
ll the world’s a stage; And all
the men and women merely
players; They have their
exits and their entrances;
And one man in his time
plays many parts. (As you
like it, Act II, scene VII, William Shakespeare.)
Indeed,KofiAnnan,bornin1938,entered
the world in the City of Kumasi in Ghana, and
exited the world in 2018 as a humanitarian, a
true statesman and a peacebuilder.
He became Secretary-General of the
United Nations (UN) a few years after the
demise of the Soviet Union. The collapse
of the bipolar world reduced to the barest
minimum the constraints imposed by the Cold
War rivalry on the world body. It also led to
the expansion of its role and responsibilities to
address the new challenges and dimensions
of security.
Annan’s tenure began a few years after the
(re)introduction of two important international
security lexicons – peacebuilding and human
security. These two were popularised in the
UN-commissioned works by former Secretary-
General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali’s An Agenda
for Peace (1992) and the Pakistani economist,
Mahbub ul Haq. Boutros-Ghali’s initiative
expanded the UN’s role and responsibilities to
theworld.Italsoredefinedglobalpeaceand
security architecture.
The 1990s were characterised by complex
andintractablearmedconflicts.Theperiod
sawasignificantshiftfrominter-statetointra-
stateconflicts.Therewasariseinthenumber
of failed states as well as egregious violations
of human rights.
As the Under-Secretary-General of the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations,
and later the Secretary-General, Annan’s task
of overseeing the implementation of the new
security agenda was no doubt arduous.
The fight against poverty
Throughout his life, Annan committed himself
to peace and security, human rights and rule
of law. He was committed to ensuring respect
for human rights and improving human
security. Both were considered important in
improving the quality of living of people. On
one occasion he remarked:
“… anyone who speaks forcefully for
human rights but does nothing about human
security and human development – or vice
versa – undermines both his credibility and
his cause. So let us speak with one voice on
all three issues.”
He pursued the agenda of improving the
quality of people by getting world leaders to
commit themselves to addressing the basic
concerns of the world’s population – poverty.
In his 2000 report, We the Peoples: The Role
of the United Nations in the 21st Century, he
urged member states to:
“Put people at the centre of everything we
do …. to make their lives better.”
In the concluding part of the report, Annan
admonished:
“Free our fellow men and women from the
abject and dehumanising poverty in which
more than one billion of them are currently
confined.”
Throughout his international public service,
measures to address the basic needs of
people were ever present, both in his words
and deeds. Even on retirement, he continued
to work for the improvement of the living
standards of ordinary people.
The reformist
Annan was a reformist. On taking up the
post as the seventh Secretary-General of
the UN, he drove the implementation of two
management reports on reform. The first
introduced a cabinet kind of body which
assisted the Secretary-General in the effective
running of the organisation.
The second established the position of
Deputy Secretary-General and the reduction
of administrative costs to the world body.
By Abdul-Jalilu Ateku
PhD Candidate in International Relations,
University of Nottingham
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | KOFI ANNAN: A MAN WHO PAID HIS DUES TO GLOBAL PEACE AND SECURITY
Kofi Annan: A man who paid
his dues to global peace and security
68

He presided over reforms intended to make
the UN an effective international peace and
security interlocutor. In his progress report, he
made further far-reaching recommendations
for the expansion of the Security Council and
a number of other reforms that brought about
significantchangestotheUN.
His past experiences
shaped his international
engagements, especially on
international interventions
to save humanitarian
catastrophes. The failure of
the UN to stop the genocide
in Rwanda in 1994 and
the Srebrenica massacre
when Annan served as the
head of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations
were key events in this
context.
Under Annan, the UN General Assembly in
2005 endorsed the doctrine of “Responsibility
to Protect” following the incorporation of this
doctrine in his report, Larger Freedom.
In the preparation to invade Iraq in 2003,
Annan condemned the United States of
Ameria and the United Kingdom, urging them
not to do so without the support of the UN. He
believed the intervention didn’t conform with
the UN Charter, and was therefore illegal.
Reflections
In his memoir, which he co-authored with
his former adviser and speechwriter, Nader
Mousavizadeh,Annanreflectedonhisroles
at the UN.
On the Rwandan genocide, one of the
significant lapses that dented the UN’s
peacekeeping reputation, Annan reported
how he lobbied about 100 governments – and
made personal calls to others – to assist with
the passage of the Security Council Resolution
(918) to dispatch about 5 500 troops to the
country. He recalls how he received no single
serious offer for troop contribution.
The 1999 independent investigation into
what had happened categorically concluded
that the UN had failed to prevent, and stop,
the genocide in Rwanda. As Secretary-
General during the investigation, Annan
accepted responsibility for the lapses during
the genocide in Rwanda. He said: “All of us
must bitterly regret that we did not do more
to prevent it”, pointing out that the UN peace
force at the time was “neither mandated
nor equipped” for the kind of forceful action
needed to prevent the genocide.
Nonetheless with a deeper refection,
Annan said: “On behalf of the United Nations,
I acknowledge this failure and express my
deep remorse.”
Recounting more recently on the genocide in
Rwanda and his later diplomatic undertakings
after the end of his tenure as the Secretary
General, Annan said he’d learnt some useful
lessons:
“I realised after the genocide that there
was more that I could and should have done
to sound the alarm and rally support. This
painful memory, along with that of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, has influenced much of
my thinking, and many of my actions, as
Secretary-General.”
He was to put these lessons into practice
as he continued to pursue avenues for peace
inconflictsaroundtheworld.Forexample,
six months after his appointment as the UN-
Arab League Special Envoy to Syria, Annan
resigned. His reasons included the stalemate
in the Security Council to take measures that
could ensure a peaceful resolution to the
Syrian crisis as well as the intransigence of
both the Assad regime and the rebels towards
a peaceful outcome.
In 2016, he headed the Rakhine
Commission, which was appointed to look
into the Rohingya conflict in Myanmar.
The commission’s recommendations were
unpopular to both sides. But in 2018, the
Myanmar Civilian Government of Aung
San Suu Kyi accepted the commission’s
recommendations and convened a new
board, ostensibly to implement them.
Annan acquitted himself well as an
international diplomat, a humanist and
peacebuilder. He lived a fulfilled life, and
contributedsignificantlyinhischosencareer.
Kofi “Damirifa Duei Duei ne amane hunu”
(Rest in Peace).
ThisarticlewasfirstpublishedonThe Conversation
On behalf of the Government and the
People of South Africa, President Cyril
Ramaphosa expressed his sincere
condolences at the untimely passing
ofMrKofiAttaAnnan,thefirstAfrican
United Nations Secretary-General from
sub-Sahara.
President Ramaphosa said Mr
Annan’s death was a great shock and
loss to the global community.
President Ramaphosa paid tribute to
Mr Annan “as a great leader and diplomat
extraordinaire” who had advanced the
African Agenda within the United Nations
(UN)andhad“flowntheflagforpeace”
around the world.
He noted that: “Former UN Secretary-
General Annan was a consummate
diplomat, who lived a life in service to
humanity”.
President Ramaphosa stated that: “In
becomingthefirstUNSecretary-General
from sub-Saharan Africa and also the
firstSecretary-Generaltorisefromwithin
the UN system as a career diplomat, he
became a symbol of African excellence
and the contribution that Africans are
making towards peace, development
and human rights throughout the
world. Through his tireless efforts,
he was instrumental in strengthening
and promoting the multilateral system
of global governance in the quest to
ensuring that the people of this world live
in larger freedom as envisaged by the
Charter of the UN.”
After his term as Secretary-General
came to an end, Mr Annan continued
his service to towards making the world
a better place by chairing the Group of
Elders who are dedicated to improving
peace and human rights.
Mr Annan received South Africa’s
National Order of the Companions of OR
Tambo in 2004 for his role in the struggle
against colonialism worldwide, serving
as an inspiration for the fight against
apartheid.
i
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
KOFI ANNAN: A MAN WHO PAID HIS DUES TO GLOBAL PEACE AND SECURITY  | DIPLOMACY
69

T
he world lost an inspirational
leader and fighter for slum-
dwellers’ rights, who died in
India on Saturday, 13 October
2018, at the age of 71. The
gentle giant will be missed
by all of us around the world, especially
his constituency in Africa, Asia and South
America, for his energy, vision, dogmatic
certainties and commitment – all of which
knew no bounds. Jockin Arputham fought for
the rights of slum dwellers for over 40 years –
going back to the early 1970s when he tried to
stop the bulldozing of the settlement in which
he lived in India.
In order to further these efforts, Jockin
founded the National Slum Dwellers
Federation, enduring constant harassment.
Jockin’s tolerance is in the same ilk as some
of the great leaders, including Albert Luthuli,
Oliver Tambo and Nelson Mandela. “Talk with
government”, he would say,“not fight with
them”. It was not weak and compromising.
It was a tolerance of others that came
from complete self-assurance and a deep
understandingthatresolutionofconflictcame
from seeing your own humanity in those that
the gross inequalities of life forced you to
challenge. He saw the need, above all, to get
government to see the “slum” population as
a tremendous resource that they could work
with.
“I am a proud slum dweller”, Jockin often
said. “There is a war between the urban rich
and the urban poor … And I’m trying to make
peace between them.” He went on to say, “We
are not impinging on resources. We don’t take
much water, electricity, public transport. We
are the human resource of the city.”
Jockin was a mentor and friend of the
South African SDI Alliance since its inception.
Throughhim,theyfirststartedsavingafter
visiting India where they saw that poor
people could unite through saving and data
collection. The result of this relationship was
the formation of the Federation of Urban
Poor (FEDUP), a federation of savings
The gentle giant will be missed
By Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation
Jockin Arputham:
“I am a proud slum dweller”, Jockin often said.
“There is a war between the urban rich and
the urban poor ... And I’m trying to make peace
between them.”
70
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
DIPLOMACY | JOCKIN ARPUTHAM: THE GENTLE GIANT WILL BE MISSED

groups set up by women living in our informal
settlements. Together, using a range of tools,
including community-based saving schemes,
community-led data gathering and mapping
of informal settlements, FEDUP has devised
innovative housing projects that have set
precedents for better project implementation.
Jockin and this federation showed
government that slum dwellers could work
together to expedite delivery and promote
efficiency.
These are the tools and experiences he
brought to the formation of the Slum Dwellers
International that he helped found in 1995.
Today, the SDI has affiliated federations
in over 30 countries. It is a global network
that learns from and supports each other,
demonstrating innovative alternatives to
governments and international agencies.
The many tens of thousands of people
who met Jockin will miss his magnetism.
He was an enormously charismatic human
being. All over the world, Jockin’s mantra to
the homeless and slum dwellers was “Identify
the land, dance on the land, have a picnic on
the land, and then develop the land. When
government asks you how many people live
in your settlement, don’t say ‘plenty’. Collect
your data and tell them a number. Because
information is power.”
He was an unstoppable force for good and
an unbelievable champion of the urban poor.
For their rights most certainly and for their
humanity and for the recognition – not yet
won – that they were not a mass of victims
or guinea pigs. Instead, he was determined
to show the ever-growing number of people
who understood the importance of listening
to him, that the capacities, the resilience
and the collective wisdom of the urban poor
presented governments with a blueprint for a
better future.
Jockin in his beautiful gentle manner,
challenged us; not to score ideological or
abstract victories (although he certainly
understood their value) but to make real,
tangible differences in the lives of poor
people. Ministers, MECs and mayors in South
Africa, who had the privilege of working with
him, knew this well.
Few, if any organisation in the world, can
demonstrate a similar scale and depth in terms
of Jockin’s/SDI’s impact on poor communities
– through enumeration, settlement mapping,
securing tenure, installing drainage,
upgrading services and incrementally building
houses. The United Nations (UN) Human
Settlements Programme acknowledged this
and in recent times, the SDI has occupied
prominence at all UN events.
This required superhuman energy and
courage. It necessitated a brilliant mind. It
demanded the capacity to see opportunities
and seize them. Most of all, it required the
ability to mobilise, humanise, conscientise
and inspire people like himself – people
downtrodden, excluded, evicted, exploited
andobjectified.
We mourn Jockin Arputham who has long
taught and challenged us. Jockin, perhaps
more than anyone else, has shaped and
informed our work in urban areas. Those
hundreds of thousands of slum dwellers
who belong to Jockin’s beautiful, rag-tag,
festive but deeply determined army are on
themarch.Theyaretheonesthatwillfillthe
“Jockin-sized hole” that the great man has left
behind.
71
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
JOCKIN ARPUTHAM: THE GENTLE GIANT WILL BE MISSED | DIPLOMACY

T
he Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) hosted the Diplomatic Fun Fair on Saturday, 8 December
2018, at the Pioneer Museum, Pretoria, under the theme: “Honouring Madiba, A Global Champion of Human Rights, Peace and
Reconciliation”.
The annual event serves as a key platform to educate the general public about diplomacy and South Africa’s foreign policy
objectives. It brings together embassies and high commissions accredited to South Africa to showcase and promote cultural
diplomacy through creative expressions such as arts, music and cuisine from around the world.
DIRCO HOSTS DIPLOMATIC FUN FAIR
72
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

73
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIRCO HOSTS DIPLOMATIC FUN FAIR  | DIPLOMACY

Once, hundreds of thousands of lions roamed the world, but today conservationists give approximate numbers of
between 25 000 and 30 000 left, most in sub-Saharan Africa. In South Africa, chances of seeing lions are high,
whether in the country’s national parks or in private game reserves.
74
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

75
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

76
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | LIBERATION HERITAGE: DUMISANI KUMALO
Liberation heritage:
Dumisani Kumalo
T
he diplomat, Dumisani
Shadrack Kumalo, who
served as the Permanent
Representative of South
Africa to the United Nations
(UN), died at his home on
20 January 2019 at the age of 71.
Ambassador Kumalo was born in
Kwambunda village, on the banks of the
Blood River, Kingsley, Natal, to Khelina
Kumalo (née Mbatha) and Andries Kumalo on
16September1947.Hewasthefifthchildof
11 siblings.
After the family moved to Evaton, south
of Johannesburg, he attended the Evaton
Community School after which he attended
Wilberforce College, also in Evaton. He
furthered his academic studies by acquiring
a BA degree from the University of South
Africa and a Master’s degree from Indiana
University. He spent much of his childhood
in Evaton and later moved to Soweto to stay
with his elder brother and the only remaining
sibling, Henry, who raised him like his son.
Mtungwa cut his political teeth as a student
activist. He pursued his fight for freedom,
justice and equality for all when he took up
journalism and was one of the founding
members of the Union of Black Journalists. He
joined Jim Bailey’s Post and Drum magazine
in 1967 and later the Sunday Times.
It is during this time that he also became
an activist in the South African Student
Organisation, where he found a platform
tocontributeandaddhisvoicetothefight
against apartheid. From that point on, his
family resigned itself to sharing him with the
world as he joined the struggle.
While in exile, Ambassador Kumalo became
akeyfigureintheanti-apartheiddivestment
campaign, which led to the passage of the
Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986
by the United States (US) Congress. In
this context, he played an important role in
mobilising members of Congress to reverse
then President Ronald Reagan’s veto on
sanctions because, as he put it: “Punitive
sanctions, I believe, are not the best course
of action; they hurt the very people they are
intended to help”.
“The African Agenda” occupied Dumisani
Kumalo’s mind as a lifelong vocation. He
was a true Pan-Africanist who believed in the
unity of Africa as an essential condition for the
continent to address her challenges so as to
improve the lives of the peoples of Africa for
the better.
Soon after Nelson Mandela’s release from
prison in February 1990, Ambassador Kumalo
returnedtoSouthAfricaforthefirsttimeafter
over a decade of exile in the US. He witnessed
the historic elections in 1994 that brought
the African National Congress to power and
thereafter started to work for the Government
in 1997 as Director of the US Desk in the then
Department of Foreign Affairs.
Ambassador Kumalo was subsequently
appointed as South Africa’s Permanent
Representative to the United Nations (UN)
in New York and presented his credentials
toformerSecretary-GeneralKofiAnnanon
21 April 1999.
He served as South Africa’s Permanent
Representative to the UN in New York
until 2009. During his decade-long tour
of duty, Ambassador Kumalo gained vast
experience in multilateral diplomacy and
extensive knowledge and understanding of
the challenges facing developing countries
broadly and the African continent in particular.
In this regard, Ambassador Kumalo was vocal
in calling for a strengthened and reformed UN
that would serve as a beacon of hope and
inspiration for all peoples of the world.
From 1999 to 2009, South Africa chaired
several organisations and formations, namely,
the African Union, the Non-Aligned Movement
(NAM), the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) and the Group of 77 plus
China (G77).

77
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
LIBERATION HERITAGE: DUMISANI KUMALO | FEATURE
As Chair, Ambassador Kumalo articulated
the views of Africa and the developing world
at the UN and mobilised support for the
socio-economic development programmes
of the South and Africa’s New Partnership for
Africa’s Development.
Ambassador Kumalo advocated for a rules-
based multilateral system with development,
security and human rights at its centre. He
actively participated in the main deliberative
and subsidiary bodies of the UN and held
several positions as Chair or Co-Chair of
various UN bodies: he was Chair of the
Peacebuilding Commission; Chairperson
of the Economic and Social Council Ad Hoc
Advisory Groups on Guinea Bissau and
Burundi; and Co-Chair for the establishment
of the Human Rights Council.
From 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2008,
South Africa had the honour of serving as an
elected member of the UN Security Council
(SC)forthefirsttime.AmbassadorKumalo
ledthefirstSouthAfricanteamtotheUNSC.
South Africa’s main objective in the council
wastocontributetotheresolutionofconflicts
and stabilisation of post-conflict situations.
Ambassador Kumalo also chaired several
committees of the UNSC. He was Chair of the
751 Sanctions Committee on Somalia; Chair
of the SC mandate review; Vice-Chair of the
Sanctions Committee on Liberia; Vice-Chair
of the Sanctions Committee on Côte d’Ivoire;
ChairoftheAdHocWorkingGrouponConflict
Prevention and Resolution in Africa; and Co-
Chair of the Counter-Terrorism Committee.
Ambassador Kumalo returned to South
Africa in 2009 after completing his tour of duty
in New York and was appointed as Special
Envoy for the Great Lakes Region in the
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) before retiring.
On his retirement from DIRCO, Ambassador
KumaloservedastheChiefExecutiveOfficer
of the Thabo Mbeki Foundation (TMF) until
2015. His contribution to the work of the
TMF will forever be appreciated, particularly
the establishment of the Thabo Mbeki
African Leadership Institute, a TMF initiative
in partnership with UNISA, which trains
young people in order to contribute to the
development of a cadre of thought leaders on
the African continent.
He was a big, exuberant man with a wide
and generous smile and a sense of humour to
match. In his spare time, Ambassador Kumalo
loved music, particularly jazz concerts and
jazz clubs – ask the many South African
musicians who lived with him in exile in New
York.
Ambassador Kumalo is survived by his
wife, Ntombikayise Kumalo; brother, Henry
Kumalo; children; and grandchildren.
President Cyril Ramaphosa paid tribute to the
longstanding diplomat and activist: “South
Africa and the international community share
this great loss with the family and friends of
Ambassador Kumalo”.
“We will remember this outstanding
patriot, activist and consummate diplomat for
influencingandguidingtheglobaldebateon
apartheid and for asserting South Africa’s role
in the global community during the early years
of our democracy.
“Thanks to his passion for our country,
Ambassador Kumalo was instrumental in
South Africa’s transition from a pariah state to
a partner to the international community.
“AmbassadorKumaloflewtheflagnotjust
for his own country, but for the SADC region,
Africa and the nations of the Global South.
He also championed the cause of building a
multilateral system of global governance that
would advance inclusion, fairness and peace
among the nations of the world.
“His dedication and tenacity have ensured
that South Africans and people around the
world live in a better world today”, concluded
President Ramaphosa.
The Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said
Ambassador Kumalo had left a rich legacy as a
multilateralist. “South Africans must celebrate
the contribution Ambassador Kumalo made in
thefightagainstapartheidduringhisyearsin
exile in the US, which culminated in the UNSC
recognising apartheid as a crime against
humanity. Ambassador Kumalo played an
important role in promoting multilateralism
and a strengthened and reformed UN. At a
time when multilateralism is under threat,
his experience and wisdom will be sorely
missed,” said Minister Sisulu.
Government declared a Special Official
Funeral Category 2 for the late Ambassador
Kumalo, which was held on 26 January 2019.
ASpecialOfficialFuneralCategory2entails
elements of police ceremonial honours in
line with The Presidency’s State, Official
and Provincial Official Funeral Policy for
distinguishedpersonsspecificallydesignated
by the President of the Republic of South
Africa.
Speaking at the funeral, the Minister in The
Presidency, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma,
said he was larger than life, even in those cold
corridors in the UN.
“His belting laughter could be heard
across and beyond the walls. He approached
every task with the same vigour, be it
chairing the NAM or the UNSC or the
G77 + China consultations or the various
missions he undertook to places like East
Timor. Ambassador Kumalo had inordinate
interpersonal skills and the ability to befriend
and unite either side of the negotiation table.
He was equally loved and revered by friend
and foe.
“Full of life and humble, Ambassador
Kumalo knew by name every security and
cleaning personnel at our Mission and in the

78
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
UN. Often enquiring about their families and
their progress in life, much to the irritation of
many a delegation as this would often hold
them up in the long walks to the General
Assembly and meeting rooms.
“We could have not chosen a better
representative to protect and promote the
interests of our nation and continent.
“We have spoken of the overwhelming
messages we received following the news
of Ambassador Kumalo’s passing. One such
message came from the President of Western
Sahara and SG of the POLOSARIO, President
Brahim Gali, who said: ‘Ambassador Kumalo
worked wholeheartedly to promote and
defend African interests and issues, including
hispassionateandfirmsupportfortheright
of the Saharawi people to self-determination
and freedom. [We are] grateful to his
steadfast and principled positions, we would
like to pay tribute to his great moral qualities
and dedication’.
“Ambassador Kumalo was a citizen of
the world and yet he spent most of his time
imparting knowledge and inspiring the youth
of our nation. In our Department of Foreign
Affairs, there is what is colloquially known as
the “University of Dumisani Kumalo” whose
members are now placed throughout the
world and are no doubt further imparting
knowledge.”
FEATURE | LIBERATION HERITAGE: DUMISANI KUMALO

79
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
Brand South Africa
HERE’S TO
A MATCH
MADE
IN
BUSINESS.
Partnering with BRICS has reinforced South Africa as a nation that’s ready to do business. We’re no
longer just known for thriving in the agricultural, mineral and automotive sectors. We’re moving
towards becoming a knowledge-based economy, with a greater focus on innovation, technology,
e-commerce, ﬁ  nancial and other ﬁ  elds. We’re more than ready to partner with you. Are you ready?

South Africa. Your ideal partner for growth in Africa.
Visit www.brandsouthafrica.com for more.

CAPE TOWN
WELCOMES YOU
Cape Town is also a proud recipient of a number of
international awards and accolades. In 2018, the city
was named one of the Top 10  Surf Cities in the world by
Surfer Magazine and crowned the number one city in
Africa for business tourism events by the International
Congress and Convention Association. Cape Town has
also been voted one of the Top 10 Cities in the World for
Travellers by Lonely Planet in 2017, Skytrax voted our
airport the Best in Africa and international real estate
company Savills ranked the Cape Town amongst the
world’s Top Tech Cities in a 2017 report.
VISIT
Cape Town is a must-visit destination. Cape Point,
Groot Constantia, Kirstenbosch, Robben Island, the
Table Mountain Cableway and the V&A Waterfront are
the iconic destinations that form the core of the true
Cape Town experience, and a trip to the city will not be
complete without a visit to each Big 6 attractions. Cape
Town also has the highest number of Blue Flag beaches
in South Africa. Seven of the city’s most popular beaches
and three Cape Town marinas have been recognised for
meeting the globally-acclaimed Blue Flag standards.
Beaches awarded the prestigious status include: Bikini
Beach, Mnandi, Strandfontein, Llandudno, Camps Bay,
Clifton 4th and Silwerstroom.
Cape Town has a number of world class museums that
offer up a treasure trove to the past. A number of these
museums are located in the city centre - all within
walking distance of each other - and together offer a view
as diverse and entertaining as the city itself.
The state-of-the-art Zeitz MOCAA – recently voted the
world’s top cultural destination – is the latest addition to
the Cape Town landscape and the first major museum
in Africa dedicated to contemporary art. The museum,
housed in the historic Grain Silo at the V&A Waterfront,
comprises over 9,500 square meters (102,000 square
feet) placing it among leading contemporary art
museums worldwide.
Zeitz MOCAA is spread over nine floors, of which 6,000
square meters (65,000 square feet) is dedicated to
exhibition space. Through an entire floor dedicated to
education, the museum aims to develop a new art-loving,
museum-going audience.
VISIT, LIVE, WORK, PLAY
& INVEST IN ONE OF THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL CITIES
ON EARTH
Cape Town has been voted the world’s Best City by
readers of the UK’s Telegraph for five consecutive years,
and there’s good reason why. We rank among the world’s
top destinations to visit and have all the attributes that
appeal to people looking for a great city in which to live,
work, play and invest.
Cape Town is a proudly inclusive city, welcoming all who
can join us in our vision to create a safe, sustainable,
vibrant urban environment for generations to come.
We are national leaders in business and have a thriving
knowledge economy; our skills market is growing and
the city offers numerous opportunities for work and
investment.
Cape Town is also home to over 200 companies in
the Information Technology (IT) and software industry
employing 7 500 people. Our large retailers have
extensive distribution channels into Africa opening up
the possibility of collaboration in moving products within
the continent. Cape Town also has a booming film and
media industry. It’s a sector that has created more than
35 000 jobs, contributing about US$ 92 million to the
economy in the last 3 years.
Cape Town is home to the only Hollywood style film
studio complex in Africa. Coupled with exceptionally
skilled film crew and post-production services, our
facilities are winning awards and attracting a growing
number of productions and stars to our shores. We also
act as a gateway to Africa with several companies running
their African operations from our city. The City of Cape
Town is making sure that our infrastructure investments
support key sectors, like the tech industry. An extensive
open source fibre optic network has been installed with
plans to extend the footprint over the forthcoming years.
PLAY
Cape Town hosts a wide range of local and international
events – from concerts and community-based events
to business conferences and international sports
tournaments. The city is a creative hub with arts, heritage
and cultural sites, activities and opportunities for all. We
have a lively arts and culture scene where creativity and
heritage are explored through theatre, live music, dance,
visual arts and more. Both day and night in Cape Town
offer you exciting cultural spaces to visit and events to
be a part of. Explore galleries and museums, cultural
precincts, attend signature events and explore our top
cultural venues.
INVEST
Cape Town is South Africa’s oldest city, its second-most
populous and an important contributor to national
employment. It is the legislative capital of South
Africa, the administrative and economic centre of the
Western Cape, and Africa’s third biggest economic hub.
The Mother City produces 9.8% of South Africa’s gross
domestic product (GDP) and accounts for more than
71% of the Western Cape’s economic activity (Global
Insight, 2016). The City has a diversified economy,
and the three biggest sectors are: finance, insurance,
property and business services. Cape Town is attracting
thinkers, innovators and design led entrepreneurs who
are helping to build an ecosystem that is strong in many
aspects of the knowledge economy. The city is the leader
on the African continent in the information technology
sector, with more tech start-ups than anywhere else on
the continent.
Cape Town has been chosen as the African headquarters
of innovation by companies such as Barclay Rise and
Thomson Reuters. The city is also the home to many
of South Africa and Africa’s financial institutions and,
coupled with the national headquarters of many legal
and consultancy firms, offer all the services needed to
underpin a global drive into Africa.
One of the fastest growing sectors in Cape Town’s
economy is the business process outsourcing (BPO)
sector, with many global call centres and online retailers
like Amazon choosing to conduct their operations from
our shores.
www.capetown.gov.za/visit
www.investcapetown.com
www.capetown.travel
LIVE
Cape Town has a terrific mixture of areas to live, from
vibrant city-living to quiet, leafy residential suburbs. The
city is known for its successful property market. In recent
years Cape Town’s property values and sales transactions
have exceeded Johannesburg’s and continue to attract
international property investors. The city and surrounds
is also home to four public universities, two globally
recognised business schools and a number of trustworthy
private and public institutions. Educational institutions
situated in the city include the University of Cape Town,
University of the Western Cape and the Cape Town
University of Technology. Cape Town is also fast becoming
the most digitally connected city in Africa. The City’s
public Wi-Fi service and other digital inclusion projects
are part of a broader Digital City Strategy, which aims
to make Cape Town the most digitally connected city in
Africa. Other elements of the strategy include investment
in digital infrastructure, digital business initiatives, and a
focus on digital government.
WORK
Cape Town’s favourable lifestyle is one of the major
reasons why many of the top wealth and asset
management firms choose to base themselves here.
The city is home to an impressive group of wealth
managers, including the likes of Allan Gray, Old Mutual,
Foord, Coronation, Sanlam, Prescient and Sygnia. Most
of these companies’ staff and top executives live in
the city. Top employment sectors in Cape Town include
community and social services, the financial and trade
sectors. The financial services sector employed the largest
number of skilled individuals in 2015 (274 087) and the
manufacturing sector employed the largest number of
semi-skilled and unskilled individuals (111 213).

Cape Town is also home to over 200 companies in
the Information Technology (IT) and software industry
employing 7 500 people. Our large retailers have
extensive distribution channels into Africa opening up
the possibility of collaboration in moving products within
the continent. Cape Town also has a booming film and
media industry. It’s a sector that has created more than
35 000 jobs, contributing about US$ 92 million to the
economy in the last 3 years.
Cape Town is home to the only Hollywood style film
studio complex in Africa. Coupled with exceptionally
skilled film crew and post-production services, our
facilities are winning awards and attracting a growing
number of productions and stars to our shores. We also
act as a gateway to Africa with several companies running
their African operations from our city. The City of Cape
Town is making sure that our infrastructure investments
support key sectors, like the tech industry. An extensive
open source fibre optic network has been installed with
plans to extend the footprint over the forthcoming years.
PLAY
Cape Town hosts a wide range of local and international
events – from concerts and community-based events
to business conferences and international sports
tournaments. The city is a creative hub with arts, heritage
and cultural sites, activities and opportunities for all. We
have a lively arts and culture scene where creativity and
heritage are explored through theatre, live music, dance,
visual arts and more. Both day and night in Cape Town
offer you exciting cultural spaces to visit and events to
be a part of. Explore galleries and museums, cultural
precincts, attend signature events and explore our top
cultural venues.
INVEST
Cape Town is South Africa’s oldest city, its second-most
populous and an important contributor to national
employment. It is the legislative capital of South
Africa, the administrative and economic centre of the
Western Cape, and Africa’s third biggest economic hub.
The Mother City produces 9.8% of South Africa’s gross
domestic product (GDP) and accounts for more than
71% of the Western Cape’s economic activity (Global
Insight, 2016). The City has a diversified economy,
and the three biggest sectors are: finance, insurance,
property and business services. Cape Town is attracting
thinkers, innovators and design led entrepreneurs who
are helping to build an ecosystem that is strong in many
aspects of the knowledge economy. The city is the leader
on the African continent in the information technology
sector, with more tech start-ups than anywhere else on
the continent.
Cape Town has been chosen as the African headquarters
of innovation by companies such as Barclay Rise and
Thomson Reuters. The city is also the home to many
of South Africa and Africa’s financial institutions and,
coupled with the national headquarters of many legal
and consultancy firms, offer all the services needed to
underpin a global drive into Africa.
One of the fastest growing sectors in Cape Town’s
economy is the business process outsourcing (BPO)
sector, with many global call centres and online retailers
like Amazon choosing to conduct their operations from
our shores.
www.capetown.gov.za/visit
www.investcapetown.com
www.capetown.travel
LIVE
Cape Town has a terrific mixture of areas to live, from
vibrant city-living to quiet, leafy residential suburbs. The
city is known for its successful property market. In recent
years Cape Town’s property values and sales transactions
have exceeded Johannesburg’s and continue to attract
international property investors. The city and surrounds
is also home to four public universities, two globally
recognised business schools and a number of trustworthy
private and public institutions. Educational institutions
situated in the city include the University of Cape Town,
University of the Western Cape and the Cape Town
University of Technology. Cape Town is also fast becoming
the most digitally connected city in Africa. The City’s
public Wi-Fi service and other digital inclusion projects
are part of a broader Digital City Strategy, which aims
to make Cape Town the most digitally connected city in
Africa. Other elements of the strategy include investment
in digital infrastructure, digital business initiatives, and a
focus on digital government.
WORK
Cape Town’s favourable lifestyle is one of the major
reasons why many of the top wealth and asset
management firms choose to base themselves here.
The city is home to an impressive group of wealth
managers, including the likes of Allan Gray, Old Mutual,
Foord, Coronation, Sanlam, Prescient and Sygnia. Most
of these companies’ staff and top executives live in
the city. Top employment sectors in Cape Town include
community and social services, the financial and trade
sectors. The financial services sector employed the largest
number of skilled individuals in 2015 (274 087) and the
manufacturing sector employed the largest number of
semi-skilled and unskilled individuals (111 213).

82
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
How the new Silk Road will cement
China as major trading partner for Africa
The Belt and Road Initiative will connect at least 65 countries, most of them
developing economies. The routes will cover 63% of the world’s population and
29% of global gross domestic product
.
By Asit K Biswas, Distinguished Visiting Professor, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public
Policy, National University of Singapore and Cecilia Tortajada, Senior Research
Fellow, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore
I
n 138 BC, China took its first step
towards global connectivity with the
establishment of the historical Silk
Road. Zhang Qian was sent by Emperor
Wudi to Central Asia to establish trade
relationships. His historic missions
enabled China to make contact with the
outposts of Hellenic civilisation established by
Alexander the Great.
These efforts enabled Emperor Han’s
dynasty to develop political and trade
relationships with Central Asian countries.
New ideas came to China, along with new
plants like grapes and alfalfa and superior
breeds of horses.
Centuries later, China is building a very
different, very modern version of that route.
The Belt and Road Initiative consists of two
complementary, concurrent plans. One is an
overland route connecting Europe, the Middle
East and Central Asia to China. The second
is the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, which
aims to connect China, South East and South
Asia with Africa.
The Belt and Road Initiative will connect at
least 65 countries, most of them developing
economies. The routes will cover 63% of the
world’s population and 29% of global gross
domestic product.
Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated
his commitment to the project during the
10th Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa (BRICS) Summit, held in South Africa
in late July 2018. He said it would “create
new opportunities of social and economic
development for participating countries”.
On the face of it, the Belt and Road Initiative
looks set to change a number of economic,
social and strategic landscapes. But, it’s
essential that whatever the project produces
isperceivedasbenefittingeveryoneinvolved
– China as well as the countries affected.
Some projects, which are already
underway, particularly in Africa, offer insights
into how the initiative might unfold and what its
benefitsandpitfallscouldbe.Theseprojects
also suggest that China has learned from
previous infrastructure investments on the
continent some decades ago.
Already connecting Africa
The African leg of the Belt and Road Initiative
is work in progress. China says it will hold
ongoing discussions with various countries
and make decisions based on consensus

83
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
as well as the economic, social and
political feasibility of individual projects.
Someofthecountriespoisedtobenefit
most include Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia,
Djibouti and Egypt.
This will cement China’s role as
Africa’s main trading partner, a space it
has occupied since overtaking the United
States in 2009. Between 2010 and 2015,
China’s foreign direct investment on the
continent grew by 21,7% – and it’s still
rising.
It’s important to point out that the
Belt and Road Initiative will not be
starting entirely from scratch. China
hasalreadyprovidedsignificanthelpin
improving connectivity and developing
infrastructureincountriessettobenefit
from the initiative.
For example, China supported the
Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway. It’s the
firsttransboundaryandlongestelectrified
railway line in Africa. The Export-Import
Bank of China provided commercial
loans that funded 85% of Ethiopia’s and
70% of Djibouti’s contributions. And the
China Civil Engineering Construction
Corporation also owns 10% of Djibouti’s
portion.
The 759-km long railway, which
connects landlocked Ethiopia to the
maritime trade routes of the Red Sea
and the Gulf of Aden, started carrying
passengers in late 2016.
China is also responsible for
constructing the Madaraka Express,
which connects the Kenyan port of
Mombasa to the capital city, Nairobi,
a distance of 489 km. This railway is
being extended to Naivasha in Kenya’s
northwest. There are plans to extend
it even further so that it eventually
interconnects Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,
Rwanda, Burundi and, much later, South
Sudan and Ethiopia.
The new railway has already reduced
transportation time between Kenya’s two
most important cities and, crucially for
trade, reduced the cost of transporting a
container between the two cities by half.
Next steps for the initiative
The success and effectiveness of the
Belt and Road Initiative will depend on
many factors. These include national
and regional geopolitics and the long-
term economic benefits of various
projectsinbeneficiarycountries.
It will also be important that non-
Chinese companies, both public and
private, are able to compete successfully
forasignificantportionoftheconstruction
pie. And China’s economic rivals should
not be excluded from bidding for and
winning work.
But tension is inevitable, as has
already been seen in South Asia.
China is working to complete a
6-km bridge over the river Padma in
Bangladesh for which it is providing an
over US$3 billion loan. China is investing
some US$31 billion in other projects in
Bangladesh. It also plans to spend some
US$60 billion on the construction of
ports, railways, roads and power plants
in Pakistan.
These activities and similar
infrastructure developments in other
countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka and the
Maldives have unsettled India, which is
questioning China’s real intentions in the
region.
The world will be watching as the Belt
and Road Initiative unfolds – and all the
playerswillhopethebenefitsoutweigh
the costs and are sustainable in the long
term.
Thisarticlewasfirstpublishedon The Conversation.
The success and
effectiveness of the
Belt and Road Initiative
will depend on many
factors. These include
national and regional
geopolitics and the
long-term economic
benefits of various
projects in beneficiary
countries.
HOW THE NEW SILK ROAD WILL CEMENT CHINA AS MAJOR TRADING PARTNER FOR AFRICA   | FEATURE

T
he theme for this year’s edition
of the World Economic Forum,
which took place in Davos
between 22 – 25 January
2019, was “Globalisation
4.0: Shaping a Global
Architecture in the Age of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution”. Myself and a delegation of South
African ministers worked with other global
participants on defining new models for
building sustainable and inclusive societies in
a plurilateral world.
There is no question that the Fourth
Industrial Revolution is upon us. That it is
taking place globally at unpredictably fast
rates is common cause. The biggest unknown
is the size of the seismic change ahead of
us and its impact on the developing world,
particularly the African continent.
The disruptions that digital technology will
bring are expected across industries and all
economic sectors, impacting the job market of
Africa 4.0: Preparing for the
Fourth Industrial Revolution
the future, skills development and education
of the workplace and not least, the way we
live. For Africa, the Fourth Industrialisation
Revolution poses massive opportunities, but
also some critical risks.
Previous industrial revolutions heightened
and increased regional divisions and
marginalised the most vulnerable societies in
the world. It is imperative that governments
shape the current globalisation trends to
ensure inclusivity and fairness of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution through collaboration
and partnerships. Strong collaboration and
consensus are required between government,
academia, science councils, business and
labour.
With Africa having the world’s youngest
population, the most pertinent question
to my mind is: “How does Africa, with the
development and climate challenges it faces,
take its place in a Globalisation 4.0 context?”
As Africa’s leading industrialised nation,
South Africa has been preparing for the Fourth
Industrial Revolution for several years across
various sectors of government. All industries
are being digitally disrupted, which presents
an opportunity for a growing digital economy.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution provides
us with a new and unique opportunity to
address youth unemployment by adapting
our education models to catalyse innovation
and upskill the next generation for digital
transformation.
Industrialisation 4.0
Through the Department of Trade and
Industry’s (the dti) Industrial Policy Action
Plan, government has developed several
iterations of industrial policy to support
Africa’s industrialisation and optimisation
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The dti
recently established a new Chief Directorate,
the Future Industrial Production and
Technologies Unit, to examine likely impacts
and build capacity around government to
confront challenges of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution.
By importing Industry 4.0 technologies and
combining them with low costs of production
factors, emerging countries can leapfrog in
the value chain and solve societal issues,
including creating decent jobs.
Industries with wide product ranges
(such as food and beverages), commodity
producers (metals, agriculture) and precision-
84
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
By Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams
Minister of Communications

driven (pharmaceuticals and electronic
components) are most likely to invest in
Industry 4.0, which is crucial for the South
African economy.
Early South African areas of response
to date include aggressive technology
acquisitions, transfer and diffusion
of technologies; securing inward
investment from global original equipment
manufacturers in key strategic value chains
to build global competitive capabilities e.g.
mining and mining capital equipment; fuel
cells; aerospace; and defence.
As government, we have stepped
up research and development and
commercialisation efforts, led by the
Department of Science and Technology
and its institutions, in close collaboration
with the dti.
We are providing a much stronger
institutional architecture to support
technology transfers – building on excellent
examples like the Technology Localisation
Implementation Unit at the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research. In
addition, we have programmes to support
innovation, such as tax incentives to
encourage acquisition and innovation
in production capabilities, new systems,
processes, products and exports.
Youth, education and jobs for new,
smarter economies
Many jobs are threatened by redundancy
in the next wave of industrialisation and
this pertains to Africa too. Existing jobs are
expected to go through step-changes in the
skill sets required to perform them. Others
job types are expected to grow rapidly but
unpredictably.
Knowledge and information and
communications technology skills will
be critical to Africa unlocking future
opportunities. Upskilling is essential to
ensure economic survival and social
consent; a critical responsibility falls on
the State and business for continuous,
targeted training and re-training initiatives.
Governments and business should work to
assist workers and communities with the
changes required to be part of the Fourth
Industrial Revolution.
President Cyril Ramaphosa recently
announced, as part of government’s
broader strategy to upskill the next
generation with digital skills, that learners
will be equipped with tablet devices to
assist e-learning at public schools.
Africa embraces Globablisation 4.0
We encourage South African companies to
consider the rest of Africa as a key market,
especially for trade in value-added products
that will form part of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution value chains. Intra-African
trade remains low compared to other major
regions in the world such as the European
Union and Asia. Africa needs to increase its
production base of export manufacturing
and focus on facilitating the movement of
goods across borders in competitive ways.
There has been encouraging progress
on this front. In July 2018, South Africa
joined almost 50 other countries on the
continent in signing the Continental Free
Trade Area (CFTA) Agreement, which
seeks a single continental market for
goods and services, with free movement
of business persons and investments.
With about 1,2 billion people on the African
continent, the African CFTA Agreement
could create one of the largest free trade
market zones in the world.
Africa has shown its digital leapfrogging
capabilities in the past through successful
digital transformation – the area where
we’re seeing economic growth occur for
Africa.
To this end, we as a nation are ensuring
that we are part of the important global
discussions pertaining to the Fourth
Industrial Revolution because Africa cannot
afford to be left behind.
The International Telecommunication
Union Telecom World Congress was hosted
bySouthAfricaforthefirsttimeinDurbanin
September 2018. The conference attracted
7 000 government ministers, leaders of
multilateral organisations, regulators,
business, entrepreneurs and small
businesses. We embraced this opportunity
because it ensured that Africa’s voice
was heard in the important technology
discussions which include preparations
for 5G networks, impact and ownership of
artificialintelligence,cybersecurityandthe
risks and opportunities of a smarter world.
Another area of focus is connecting the
peoplewhoremainoffline.TheSmartAfrica
Initiative has resolved to launch the One
Africa Network, which is aligned to modern
thinking in the rollout of infrastructure
as the continent strives to connect her
unconnected citizens. Training people in
digital skills is as important as rolling out
infrastructure to cover everyone.
In this regard, African countries are
rolling out the Internet-for-All Programme,
which focusses on the provision of digital
skills, localisation of Internet content and
manufacturing and rollout of infrastructure.
Some private-sector companies, like Cisco
and Microsoft, are partnering with African
countries to scale up digital skills training.
All these initiatives are important
because they facilitate the meaningful
participation of Africans in the Fourth
Industrial Revolution and empowers us to
do so on our own terms.
President Cyril Ramaphosa led Team South
Africa’s participation in the annual meetings
of the World Economic Forum (WEF) from
22 to 25 January 2019 in Davis-Klosters,
Switzerland.
The 2019 WEF was held under the
theme “Globalisation 4.0: Shaping a Global
Architecture in the Age of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution”. The annual gathering brings
together heads and members of more than
100 governments, top executives of the
1 000 foremost global companies, leaders of
international organisations and relevant non-
governmental organisations, and cultural,
societal and thought leaders, among others.
President Ramaphosa began his
programme on Wednesday, 23 January 2019,
where he co-chaired a session on Shaping
Africa’s Agenda in the Global Context and
also addressed a session on Country Strategy
Dialogue on South Africa.
The President also attended the Alibaba
Spring Festival Dinner hosted by founder and
Executive Chairperson of the Alibaba Group,
Jack Ma.
On Thursday, 24 January 2019, President
Ramaphosa addressed the South Africa
Investment Seminar to showcase successes
of the first Investment Conference, held in
October 2018, and used the opportunity to
communicate on the reforms government had
initiated to improve ease of doing business and
enhancethecountry’sprofileasaninvestment
partner of choice.
He also made contributions during
sessions on Europe and Africa: Towards a
New Development Architecture; the Informal
Gathering of World Economic Leaders lunch:
The World in the Age of Globilisation 4.0; and
Africa’s Leadership in the Global Context.
The President also during the WEF gathering
met with various investors, showcasing South
Africa’s investment and trade opportunities.
The WEF gathering provided a platform for
Team South Africa to engage and update the
international community, including investors,
on the path of renewal and growth upon which
the country has embarked.
The Davos discussions explored how
technological advances were impacting
on or giving rise to new systems of health,
transportation, communications, production,
distribution and energy, and the changes
required in education and other programmes
to prepare workers for this economic revolution
and accompanying social changes.
The forum enabled Team South Africa to
contribute to global dialogue on key issues
facing humanity and to engage on key
opportunities that are emerging.
85
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
AFRICA 4.0: PREPARING FOR THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION | FEATURE
i

A
s the digital age transforms
the way in which people live,
it will also have an impact on
the economy and on jobs.
New trades with new skills
will be created and some
jobs that are currently being done by humans
will be replaced by automated systems.
All except those that still require a human
touch and complex problem-solving abilities
will survive.
This is according to Professor Tshilidzi
Marwala, the Vice-Chancellor and Principal
of the University of Johannesburg, who was
one of the keynote speakers at the 2018
Science Forum South Africa, which took place
in Pretoria in December 2018.
In his address, he highlighted some of the
critical skills needed in the Fourth Industrial
Revolution.
“I am going to talk about something called
the Moravec’s dilemma. Moravec basically
believed that [the] skills that human beings
acquired a long time ago are much more
difficult to automate than skills that were
acquired more recently.
“At OR Tambo, not too long ago, they used
to have a machine to give people massages.
You would sit on the chair and there would be
things that would be moving for you to get a
massage. Those chairs are no longer there
and the reason for that is that human beings
do those things much better than a machine.
“So, jobs that have what is called the
human touch are jobs that are going to survive
the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” he said.
The Moravec paradox is a principle that
was articulated by futurist Hans Moravec
and other artificial intelligence and robotics
researchers in the 1980s. It states that
contrary to other assertions, it is easy to give
robots or computers adult level performance
on intelligence tests while at the same time it
isabitmoredifficulttogivethemskillslike
sensibility or mobility.
Marwala’s research in artificial intelligence
Having been in his current position since
January 2018, previously Professor Marwala
was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research
and Internationalisation between 2013 and
2017.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in
Mechanical Engineering (magna cum laude)
from Case Western Reserve (University
United States of America), a Master of
Mechanical Engineering from the University
ofPretoriaandaPhDspecialisinginArtificial
Intelligence and Engineering from the
University of Cambridge. He was a post-
doctoral research associate at the Imperial
By Amukelani Chauke
South African Government News Agency
Jobs and skills in the Fourth
Industrial Revolution
The skills that will be required for the digital revolution age are, among others, cognitive
abilities; systems skills; complex problem-solving skills; content skills; process skills; social
skills; resource management skills; technical skills; and physical skills.
86
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | JOBS AND SKILLS IN THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION

College (then University of London).
His research interests are multidisciplinary
and include the theory and application of
artificialintelligencetoengineering,computer
science,finance,socialscienceandmedicine.
He has published 12 books on artificial
intelligence (one of which has been translated
into Chinese), over 300 papers in journals,
proceedings, book chapters and magazines
and holds four international patents.
Automated work in the Fourth Industrial
Revolution
Profesor Marwala took some time to explain
the journey the world had travelled from the
firsttothefourthrevolutions.
While the fourth marks the advent of the
digital era, the First Industrial Revolution was
dominated by steam mechanisation where
hand-production methods were replaced by
iron production and chemical manufacturing,
which gave rise to the factory system. This
took place in the 18th century.
The Second Industrial Revolution,
between 1870 and 1940, was an era when
electricity was introduced and the petroleum
and steel industries were expanded.
The Third Industrial Revolution, which
Professor Marwala describes as an era
of knowledge distribution, was about
computerisation and the birth of the Internet.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution is about
cyber-physical systemisation, artificial
cognisation and robotisation.
Proffesor Marwala believes the world is
now entering an era where a great deal of
work is going to be done by machines.
Professional class must re-skill
themselves
Sharing his own research into artificial
intelligence and the Fourth Industrial
Revolution,hesaidartificialintelligencehad
impacted several professions from healthcare
and the economy to political science and
psychology.
Professor Marwala used the example of
the introduction of artificial intelligence into
stock trading, where human traders were
replaced by artificially intelligent traders.
Factors such as emotion were removed from
the markets and decisions are made purely
based on data.
“Before, when the stock market was still
down in Johannesburg and everybody was
shouting prices, there were two criteria you
needed in order to work in the stock market
as a trader. One, you must have been tall
because if you are not tall enough, when you
call the price, they won’t see you. The second
one was that you needed to have an imposing
voice. If you had a soft voice you wouldn’t
survive there.
“But now the stock market is no longer
manned by human beings. People are now
using computers to trade in the stock market,”
he said.
Because of this, he said, markets had
become more rational and “rational markets
aremoreefficient”.
Professor Marwala also used the example
of the automation of operations at the then SA
Breweries as an indication that the current
digital era is already impacting on working
class jobs. The liquor brewer used to have a
plant in East London which employed 3 000
people but after it was automated, some jobs
became redundant.
He said the world was entering what is
called a “post-work” era and while conventional
wisdom predicts that the working class will
be the biggest losers, there is a need for the
professional class to re-skill themselves.
“But if you see the scale at which many
white collar jobs are being automated, I think
the professional class must actually re-skill
themselves. They must prepare themselves
much more than they are doing now,” he said.
For instance, professionals in the banking
sector, who initially were only required to have
accounting skills, must expand their skills set.
“The conclusion … is that bankers of the
future must have some form of understanding
of technology, some form of understanding of
society and some form of understanding of
financeandaccounting,”hesaid.
Skills that will survive the Fourth
Industrial Revolution
Proffesor Marwala said skills that could
survive the Fourth Industrial Revolution
could be acquired through multidisciplinary
education where human and social sciences
understood science and technology, and vice
versa.
The skills that will be required for the digital
revolution age are, among others, cognitive
abilities; systems skills; complex problem-
solving skills; content skills; process skills;
social skills; resource management skills;
technical skills; and physical skills.
SAnews.gov.za
87
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
JOBS AND SKILLS IN THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION | FEATURE

88
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
S
outh African photographer,
Bonile Bam, decided that
he wanted to tell a different
Nelson Mandela story by
documenting the landscape
and physical setting in
which Mandela lived as a boy. Like Mandela,
Bam also grew up in the Eastern Cape. The
entirely black and white photographs formed
part of an exhibition in Johannesburg called
Mandela’s Roots (Revisited) . Raymond
Suttner interviewed Bam on his photography
and how he came to develop the Mandela
exhibition, which coincided with Mandela’s
birth 100 years ago.
How did you come to focus on Mandela?
In 2003, I had the privilege of working for the
Sunday Times newspaper in Johannesburg.
During that period, I read a lot of articles
about Madiba but he had already retired from
politics.
A phone call from the Nelson Mandela
Foundationrequestingmetobeanofficial
photographer for the event where Madiba
was meeting his guests, played a huge part
in my career.
Did you get a chance to talk to Madiba?
At the end of the event, Mandela, spoke to me
and said, “Good to see you young man, I’m
glad you came”.
Smiling, he continued, “You must treat a
camera like a key, it will unlock many doors
for you”.
That was a turning point in my life. Being
in the presence of a man who sacrificed
everything on earth in order to help liberate
his country from the chains of apartheid was
exceptional. After hearing the stories and
struggles he had gone through as a young
boy, I took it upon myself to trace his roots in
the Eastern Cape.
Was this not a difficult task?
I could not travel to Mvezo, Qunu and
Mqhekezweni (Eastern Cape towns) and just
start pointing a camera at people. On my trip, I
met with elders of the Madiba clan (Mandela’s
clan). Arriving there with a camera ready to
photograph preserved sites would be seen
as a sign of disrespect and undermining the
community. My attempt was to move with
caution and allow the story to unfold.
As an observer with a camera, the ability
to speak and write is not enough. I needed to
listen. The elders who grew up with Madiba
pointed in the direction of Mvezo. When I
gathered enough material, I knew it was time
to get going.
On my arrival, in June 2005, I was freezing
from the shoulders down to my toes. My
fingertipswereshrinkingandbecomingstiffer
the closer I got to his birthplace. The houses
were dark but I could identify slow movement
of livestock passing far away. The path I
walked through was dry and dusty with some
parts of rough stones. I desperately needed
a cup of coffee to stay warm but the sun
was beginning to crack between clouds. The
sound of the birds and Mbashe River kept me
going.
On what were you focussed?
Mypointofinterestwastofindtheremains
of the house where Madiba’s umbilical cord
was hidden in 1918 – and related things in the
surroundings.
Meanwhile, the livestock were grazing
lazilyinthefields.Ihadtostopandappreciate
the view. In the village, it would be rude of a
stranger to leave a place without speaking to
the people on the roadside. I was interested
in documenting the life, values, landscape,
spaces,objects,specifictexturesandhistory
of the place.
It was time to move to Qunu. Here, the
Madibas dominate large part of the social
landscape. Beautiful or not – a place in
anypartoftheworldisdefinedbyhuman
experience and knowledge brought to it.
Why do you think we can interpret Mandela
through his early physical surroundings?
Clearly, it’s hard to measure a person of
Madiba’s stature against nature. The streams
and footpaths where he played traditional
stick-fight with other boys, hunted rabbits,
knocked birds (out of the sky) and herded his
father’s cattle are seen not far away from his
home. In my visits there, I sensed an element
of harmony and respect for tradition.
In Mqhekezweni, where Madiba grew up
after the passing of his father, a rondavel
(bungalow) and church are testimony to what
influenced his life long before politics took
centre stage.
Going outside, the twin gumtrees
maintained their majestic appeal. This
is where Madiba was groomed to be an
adviser to Acting Regent Chief Jongintaba
Dalindyebo long before he became a symbol
of democracy and freedom.
Why do you think the photographs are
important?
These photographs matter because they tell a
story about a place, a man and his identity at
a certain point in time. In my view, the pictures
depicted here are much more than a simple
recordofhome.Theyreflectvalues,history
and lifestyle.
Madiba was a humanist. However, some
people have a basic knowledge of where he
came from and who he was but in reality, not
much is known about the settings that shaped
his childhood.
This body of work attempts to reveal his
origins.
ThisarticlewasfirstpublishedonThe Conversation.
Revisiting Nelson
Mandela’s roots: A
photographic exploration
By Raymond Suttner
Emeritus Professor, University of South Africa and Visiting Professor and Strategic
Adviser in the Faculty of Humanities, University of Johannesburg

89
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
REVISITING NELSON MANDELA’S ROOTS: A PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPLORATION | FEATURE
The Faculty of Humanities at the University of
Johannesburg (UJ), in partnership with the National
Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences
and the UJ Library launched the Mandela’s Roots
(Revisited) a photographic exhibition, consisting of
some 27 black and white photographs, by Bonile
Bam on Monday, 27 August 2018. The exhibition
ran until 30 October 2018.
The Mandela’s Roots Exhibition traced Nelson
Mandela’s childhood journeys through rural towns
in the Eastern Cape and featured a series of mainly
blackandwhitephotographsshotonfilminMveso,
Quno and Mqhekezweni, and documented the
landscape and physical setting in which Mandela
lived as a boy.
Bonile Bam, who grew up in the Eastern
Cape, explained that he wanted to tell the story of
Mandela through the landscape and structures that
influencedhispoliticallife.
“My work represents a personal journey around
spaces and times I refused to ignore. Part of my
responsibility as a documentary photographer is
to trace and record things I have witnessed before
they forever escape the memory. South African
landscape has so much hidden in it that still needs
to be brought to light. It is my intention to approach
every subject or object with great respect. Dignity
is the foundation of knowing what to isolate or
introduce without hurting the naked eye.”
Bam trained at the Market Photo Workshop –
a photography training workshop that was started
by David Goldblatt in the 1980s for photographers
excluded from formal tertiary education. After
graduating, he stayed on to teach at the Market
Photo Workshop. While there, he was selected for
the prestigious Getty Images Fellows Programme,
on which he completed a photography course in
New York before returning to South Africa.
Bamsayshefeelsthatthisishismostsignificant
work to date: “This is the most important project of
my life. Madiba motivated me to take photography
seriously and, as a result, that made me work on
this project with the intention of revealing the hidden
or silent story about the man who has inspired the
world.”
Bam, who has exhibited in New York, Austria, the
Czech Republic, Sweden and the Netherlands, is
now working on a project that will document various
South African cultural practices. The photos will be
shot in colour using a digital format.
www.nelsonmandela.org / University of Johannesburg
i

90
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
I
n July 2018, the Duke and Duchess of
Sussex attended the opening of Nelson
Mandela: The Centenary Exhibition
in London. It was one of many global
events to celebrate Mandela’s 100th
birthday and his legacy.
What shouldn’t be forgotten is that
establishment support for Mandela and the
struggle he represented was not unanimous
during the apartheid years. For example,
under Margaret Thatcher, the British
Government supported Pretoria and secured
Britain’s economic and political interests in
the region.
Yet, a network of organisations and
activists, anti-colonial groups, students, trade
unionists and anti-nuclear groups on the
left offered support for the struggle. Local
authorities – in big cities such as London as
well as smaller towns such as Ipswich and
Chatham across the United Kingdom (UK) –
were part of the mix of anti-apartheid protests.
Located between government and grassroots
organisations, local authorities paved the way
foranofficialrejectionofapartheid.
Their legacy of resistance is worth revisiting
for two reasons. Firstly, because this
form of politics is often overlooked when
we concentrate on the demonstrations,
sanctions and concerts in Mandela’s name.
And secondly, because it could be seen as
a precursor to contemporary movements
calling to remove statues commemorating the
colonial past in South Africa and in the UK.
Act of protest
From the early 1980s, local governments
in the UK began renaming streets, housing
estates and community centres after Mandela
as an act of protest – both against apartheid
and the British Government.
In August 1981, the City of Glasgow
awarded the imprisoned Mandela the Freedom
of the City. That year, the Lord Provost
of Glasgow also initiated a Declaration of
Mayors for the immediate and unconditional
release of Mandela and all other political
prisoners in South Africa. The campaign led
to 2 264 mayors from 56 countries signing the
declaration.
On the 20th anniversary of Mandela’s arrest
on 5 August 1982, the United Nations (UN)
Special Committee on Apartheid called
for an expansion of the campaign. On the
heels of this call came an initiative by the
Greater London Council to rename Selous
Street,hometotheofficesoftheBritishAnti-
Apartheid Movement in London, Mandela
Street.
In the application to the Director-General
of the council in March 1983, it was explained
that renaming the street was a particularly
public and enduring way of honouring Mr
Mandela and of demonstrating support for the
causeforwhichheisfighting.
My research at the Anti-Apartheid
Movement Archives at the Bodleian Library at
Oxford University shows many objections to
this proposal.
How resistance led to London’s Selous
Street becoming Mandela Street
By Tal Zalmanovich
Postdoctoral fellow at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in the European Research Council-
funded project, APARTHEID-STOPS, that studies the transnational circulation of anti-apartheid
expressive culture, Hebrew University of Jerusalem

91
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Commander Selous wrote a similar account in
a letter published in The Spectator on 16 July.
Reports in the press about the initiative,
and the objections to it, caused a stir. To avoid
this criticism, the council promised small
grants to cover advertising and stationary
costs. It was also agreed that the street sign
would retain the older name in addition to
Mandela’s. The change was approved in time
to celebrate Mandela’s 65th birthday.
The following year, the Greater London
Council strengthened its commitment to
anti-apartheid protests. In January 1984, it
presented its own anti-apartheid declaration
to a delegation from the UN. The statement
declared London an “anti-apartheid zone”.
Thestreetnamingcontroversyexemplifies
the tensions over the attempt to inscribe
Mandela’s non-racial politics on the ground in
the UK. It shows the power of local government
to shape politics and mobilise change, even in
opposition to national government.
The controversy also shows how the built
environment can be used as an effective tool
of education.
ThisarticlewasfirstpublishedonThe Conversation.
HOW RESISTANCE LED TO LONDON’S SELOUS STREET BECOMING MANDELA STREET   | FEATURE
Resistance
The street was quite small and entirely
commercial. A survey from 1982 listed seven
commercialfirms,onecharitableorganisation,
somecouncilofficesandagarage.
A letter from the council’s valuer and
estates surveyor shows that there was
apprehension about renaming the street.
It could, the surveyor argues, harm local
businesses because “deliveries and new
customers” would get confused by “incorrect
information on maps”.
Some businesses did write to the council,
pointing out that they faced additional
expenses such as having to order new
stationary as well as advertisements.
The Post Office also objected. Its
representative argued that the initiative
confer “additional work, inconvenience and
confusion” and that all records, maps and
postcode books would need to be updated.
Woulditnotbebetter,theofficialsuggested,
to name a future street after Mandela rather
than an existing one?
A last challenge to the street’s name came
from the far-right group, the National Front,
in 1988. The group distributed pamphlets
calling for “British names for British places!”
It proposed renaming Mandela Street after a
different Nelson: Horatio Nelson. No action
was taken.
A more personal appeal came from
Commander GMB Selous who informed
Camden borough’s director of planning and
communications that his family “were slightly
horrified”bytheinitiative.Hepointedoutthat
Henry Courtney Selous, after whom the street
had been named, was the renowned painter
of “The Opening of the Great Exhibition by
Queen Victoria” from 1851, and his brother
was a known dramatist. As a family, they
would be absolutely horrified if a link with
England’s history should be removed at the
whim of people who are, after all, visitors
within our normally peaceful shores.
This was a misleading description of
the Anti-Apartheid Movement, a British
organisation peopled with volunteers mostly
of British descent. Commander Selous also
forgets to mention his most famed ancestor,
Fredrick Courteney Selous, who was an
imperial explorer of South Africa, assistant
to Cecil Rhodes and game hunter. Frederick
Courtney’s exploits in South Africa and in
Zimbabwe were hardly peaceful.

New telescope chases the
mysteries of radio flashes and
dark energy
92
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
S
outh Africa is becoming
one of the world’s most
important radio astronomy
hubs, thanks in large part
to its role as co-host of the
Square Kilometre Array
(SKA). A new telescope was recently unveiled
that will be built at the SKA South Africa site in
the Karoo. The Hydrogen Intensity and Real-
time Analysis eXperiment (HIRAX) Project
is an international collaboration being led by
scientists from the University of KwaZulu-
Natal (UKZN).
What will HIRAX do, and how?
It’s an interferometer array that will be made
up of 1 024 six-metre dishes. Interferometer
arrays are really cool because they combine
signals from many telescopes to provide the
resolution of a larger telescope.
HIRAX has two main science goals: to
study the evolution of dark energy by tracking
neutral hydrogen gas in galaxies, and to
detectandlocalisemysteriousradioflashes
called fast radio bursts.
Dark energy is a mysterious force driving
the accelerated expansion of our universe.
HIRAX can study it, using a unique cosmic
ruler provided by nature, called baryon
acoustic oscillations. These were generated
in the very early universe, which was a hot
and dense soup of particles and light. Small
irregularities gave rise to sound waves in this
primordial soup.
These waves carried matter as they
travelled until a time when matter and light
separated, distributing matter in a very
characteristic pattern. Neutral hydrogen gas
is a great tracer of the universe’s matter
distribution. This neutral hydrogen emits a
signal at 1420 MHz, which is in the range of
frequencies used by cellular networks and
UHF television channels; the signal gets
stretched to lower frequencies as the universe
expands.
HIRAX will operate between 400 and
800 MHz, allowing it to map neutral hydrogen
in the universe between seven to 11 billion
years ago. Studying the characteristics of
dark energy during this time has the potential
to unravel its properties, as this is a vital
time when dark energy became the primary
component in the universe and accelerated its
expansion.
By Kavilan Moodley
Associate Professor, University of KwaZulu-Natal
HIRAX has two main science goals: to study
the evolution of dark energy by tracking neutral
hydrogen gas in galaxies, and to detect and
localise mysterious radio flashes called fast
radio bursts
.

93
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
The second focus area involves mysterious
bright,millisecondflashesthatscientistscall
fast radio bursts. Scientists do not know what
causes these. They’re also hard to detect
and localise since they’re so brief and most
telescopes only observe a small region of the
sky.
HIRAX’slargefieldofviewwillallowitto
observe large portions of sky daily – so when
the flashes happen, the instrument will be
more likely to see them. We expect that it’ll
seeuptoadozenoftheseflashesaday;to
put that in perspective, only a few dozen in
total have ever been observed.
And HIRAX will add the unique capability
ofbeingabletofigureoutexactlywhereinthe
sky these fast radio bursts occur, by working
with several other southern African countries
to build eight-dish outrigger arrays. These,
in combination with the main array, will help
localise these bursts to within their hosting
galaxies.
It will need to collect large amounts
of data at a rate of around 6.5 Terabits
per second. That’s comparable to all of
Africa’s international bandwidth. For that,
HIRAX needs to design and manufacture
high-precision dishes, receivers and other
instrumentation; we’re working with local
companies on this challenge.
Thentheteamwillneedtofigureoutsmart
ways to compress, store and analyse this
data. That will require big data hardware and
software.
We hope that the design and manufacturing
abilities required to equip HIRAX properly will
open up many opportunities for local industries
in the region around the SKA project.
The project originated as a response by
UKZN and its partner institutions to a call for
institutionalflagshipprojectsbytheNational
Research Foundation. It’s independent from
the SKA and its precursor, the MeerKAT –
butwillbenefitgreatlyfromtheSouthAfrican
investment in the SKA project, which gives
it access to excellent infrastructure hosted
by the South African Radio Astronomy
Observatory.
By sharing a location with MeerKAT on
the SKA South Africa site, HIRAX will be
able to conduct science in “radio-clear” skies
across its wide frequency range. Legislation
has been introduced to limit radio frequency
interference on the SKA South Africa site.
It’s also a great space because it allows
access to the southern sky covered by other
cosmological surveys and, in turn, more of the
galaxywherewe’llfindpulsars.
Being part of the “Karoo radio park” will
allow HIRAX to add to South Africa’s radio
astronomy engineering and infrastructure.
This infrastructure and the resulting science
will increase South Africa’s reputation as a
global leader in radio astronomy.
HIRAX will also contribute to training the
next generation of scientists for the SKA;
students working on the project will be
trained in all aspects of the telescope, from
engineering to science. Students who build
hardware are also involved in data analysis,
which provides a special environment for
training upcoming radio astronomy experts.
Finally, there are strong scientific
synergieswithMeerKAT(whichwasofficially
launched in July 2018). If HIRAX discovers
any interesting new pulsars, for instance,
MeerKAT can conduct follow-up timing
observations at higher frequencies.
Thisarticle,whichwasfirstpublishedonThe Conversation , was co-
authored by Carolyn Crichton, a technical writer with the HIRAX Project.
Beforejoiningtheproject,sheworkedforfiveyearsatNASA’sGoddard
Space Flight Centre in the United States.

94
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | AAD: A NATIONAL ASSET

95
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
A national asset
AAD:
Rated among the top six exhibitions in the
world, it boasts more than 450 participating
companies in the defence and aerospace
industries, from over 30 countries.
AAD: A NATIONAL ASSET | FEATURE

96
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | AAD: A NATIONAL ASSET

97
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
AAD: A NATIONAL ASSET | FEATURE
T
he Africa Aerospace and
Defence (AAD) is Africa’s
only aerospace and defence
expo that combines both a
trade exhibition and an air
show. Held biennially in the
City of Tshwane, South Africa’s administrative
capital, the AAD Expo is one of South Africa’s
largest contributors to the country’s gross
domestic product in show years, and is
regarded as a national asset.
Managed on a rotation basis by a
partnership comprising the Department
of Defence, Armscor, the South African
Aerospace, Maritime and Defence Industry
Association and the Commercial Aviation
Association of Southern Africa, AAD2018 took
place from 19 to 23 September 2018.
AAD brought together the largest gathering
of industry players in aerospace and defence
(manufacturers and innovators) and buyers
(high-level international delegations, defence
chiefs of arms and senior procurement
officers).
Rated among the top six exhibitions in the
world, it boasts more than 450 participating
companies in the defence and aerospace
industries, from over 30 countries.
A new feature on the AAD2018 programme
were seminars, covering topical subjects
such as “Cyber Security” and “The Future of
Drones”. Seminars at major exhibitions have
gained popularity worldwide, both as a means
toconveykeycapabilitiesinaspecificfield
to the top-level decision-makers attending
the exhibition and to enable the industry to
engage on a wider front. These seminars ran
over the three trade days, 19 to 21 September
2018.
Given the importance of drones in both the
military and commercial spheres, and at the
behest of drone manufacturers, AAD2018
once again featured a dedicated drone
pavilion at AAD2018.
AAD2018 was once again a world-class
event with spectacular aerial and ground
displays, some of which never seen before on
the African continent.
Among other things, the show programme
included aerial displays by the Silver Falcons,
GripensandHawkfighteraircraft.

98
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | BARBERTON MAKHONJWA MOUNTAINS DECLARED A WORLD HERITAGE SITE
T
he Minister of Arts and
Culture, Nathi Mthethwa,
announced on 2 July 2018
that South Africa had become
home to a new World Heritage
Site. Barberton Makhonjwa
Mountains were inscribed on the prestigious
World Heritage List by the 42nd United
NationsEducational,ScientificandCultural
Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage
Committee, held in Bahrain.
The UNESCO world heritage sites are
places of importance to cultural or natural
heritage as described in the UNESCO World
Heritage Convention, established in 1972.
The inscription of the Barberton Makhonjwa
Mountains brings to 10 the number of world
heritage sites in South Africa, and this
inscription now makes South Africa the home
of the most world heritage sites in Africa. Prior
to this day, South Africa was tie with Morocco
and Egypt on being home to the highest
number of sites in Africa, with nine world
heritage sites each.
“We wish to express our deepest gratitude
to the World Heritage Committee, particularly
the Director-General and the Assistant
Director-General for their inspirational
leadership. We would also like to thank the
UNESCO advisory bodies, particularly the
Barberton Makhonjwa Mountains
declared a World Heritage Site
International Union for Conservation for
the guidance they have provided during
this process. We also want to thank the
Africa Group for the manner in which they
have championed the interest of Africa in
increasing nominations of Africa’s world
heritage properties on the World Heritage
List”, Minister Mthethwa said.
“The 42nd Session of the World Heritage
Committee today, has performed another
hallowing act in keeping with the name of
this mountain, Makhonjwa, by anointing this
treasure,affirmingitsWorldHeritageStatus.
It has entered the global arena and has
joined the league of properties of Outstanding
Universal Value. As the Government of the
Republic of South Africa, we would like to
make a commitment that we will do all in
our power to protect the integrity and the
authenticity of this natural property.
“This inscription belongs to the people
of the Mpumalanga province, the people of
South Africa, the people of Africa and the
world at large. We dedicate it to our founding
fathers and our founding mothers who are
The Barberton Makhonjwa Mountains Site
is truly unique – containing the oldest and
best-preserved sequence of volcanic and
sedimentary rocks on earth
.

99
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
BARBERTON MAKHONJWA MOUNTAINS DECLARED A WORLD HERITAGE SITE | FEATURE
exemplifiedandepitomisedbythelegendary
Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu, who
this year would have turned 100 years had
theylived.Itisbefittingtodosobecausethe
two legends were not only iconic but colossal.
We say of Mandela: Be the Legacy and Mama
Sisulu: A Woman of Fortitude.”
This inscription also inaugurates the
province of Mpumalanga into the list of
provinces that are home to world heritage
sites, which are: Robben Island, (Western
Cape), Cape Floral Region Protected
Areas (Western Cape and Eastern Cape),
Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape (Limpopo),
Vredefort Dome (Free State and North-West),
Maloti Drakensberg Park [Transboundary
with Lesotho] and Isimangaliso Wetland
Park (KwaZulu-Natal), Fossil Hominid
Sites of South Africa (Gauteng, North-West
and Limpopo), Richtersveld Cultural and
BotanicalLandscapeandǂKhomaniCultural
Landscape (Northern Cape).
The Barberton Makhonjwa Mountains
Site is truly unique – containing the oldest
and best-preserved sequence of volcanic
and sedimentary rocks on earth. They have
providedanunparalleledsourceofscientific
information on the formation of the early earth
from 3,6 billion years ago. Along with their
exceptional geology, the area is rich in wild
plants, animals and beautiful scenery. The
several large and small nature reserves and
panoramic beauty provide the key elements
needed for developing diverse and innovative
tourism partnerships and businesses such as
adventure tourism, geological, birding, game
viewing, historical and cultural tours, hiking
andoff-roadtrails.Afirstworldheritagesitein
Mpumalanga will thus provide a major global
marketing boost for tourism.
According to UNESCO, the property
comprises 40% of the Barberton Greenstone
Belt, one of the world’s oldest geological
structures. The Barberton Makhonjwa
Mountains represent the best-preserved
succession of volcanic and sedimentary rock
dating back 3,6 to 3,25 billion years, when
thefirstcontinentswerestartingtoformon
the primitive Earth. It features meteor-impact
fallback breccias resulting from the impact
of meteorites formed just after the Great
Bombardment, which are particularly well
preserved.
Only two African countries were under
consideration for inscription at the 42nd World
Heritage Committee. On Friday 29 June
2018, Kenya had the honour of having the
Thimlich Ohinga Archeological Site, situated
north-west of the town of Migori, in the
Lake Victoria region declared a world heritage
site.
The Barberton Makhonjwa
Mountains represent the
best-preserved succession of
volcanic and sedimentary rock
dating back 3,6 to 3,25 billion
years, when the first continents
were starting to form on the
primitive Earth.

100
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
T
he earliest evidence of a
drawing made by humans has
been found in Blombos Cave
in the southern Cape in South
Africa.
The drawing, which
consists of three red lines cross-hatched with
six separate lines, was intentionally drawn on
asmoothsilcreteflakeabout73000years
ago. This predates previous drawings from
Africa, Europe and Southeast Asia by at least
30 000 years.
The drawing on the silcrete flake was
asurprisingfindbyarchaeologist,DrLuca
Pollarolo, an honorary research fellow at the
University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), while
he painstakingly sifted through thousands
of similar flakes that were excavated from
Blombos Cave at the Wits University satellite
laboratory in Cape Town.
Blombos Cave has been excavated by
Professor Christopher Henshilwood and
Dr Karen van Niekerk since 1991. It contains
material dating from 100 000 – 70 000 years
ago, a time period referred to as the Middle
Stone Age, as well as younger, Later Stone
Age material dating from 2000 – 300 years
ago.
Realisingthatthelinesontheflakewere
unlike anything that the team had come
across from the cave before, they set out to
answer the questions it posed. Were these
lines natural, or a part of the matrix of the
rock? Were they, perhaps, made by humans
living in Blombos Cave 73 000 years ago? If
humans made the lines, how did they make
them, and why?
Under the guidance of Professor
Francesco d’Errico at the PACEAlab of the
University of Bordeaux, France (the second
author of the paper), the team examined and
photographed the piece under a microscope
to establish whether the lines were part of
the stone or whether it was applied to it. To
Multimedia graphic design
– 73 000 years ago
ensure their results, they also examined the
piece by using RAMAN spectroscopy and
anelectronmicroscope.Afterconfirmingthe
lines were applied to the stone, the team
experimented with various paint and drawing
techniques and found that the drawings
were made with an ochre crayon, with a tip
of between 1 and 3 millimetres thick. Further,
the abrupt termination of the lines at the edge
oftheflakealsosuggestedthatthepattern
originally extended over a larger surface, and
may have been more complex in its entirety.
“Before this discovery, palaeolithic
archaeologists have for a long time been
convinced that unambiguous symbols first
appeared when Homo sapiens entered Europe,
about 40 000 years ago, and later replaced
local Neanderthals,” says Henshilwood.
“Recent archaeological discoveries in Africa,
Europe and Asia, in which members of our
team have often participated, support a much
earlier emergence for the production and use
of symbols.”
The earliest known engraving, a zig-zag
pattern, incised on a fresh water shell from
Trinil, Java, was found in layers dated to
540 000 years ago and a recent article has
proposed that painted representations in
three caves of the Iberian Peninsula were
64 000 years old and therefore produced by
Neanderthals. This makes the drawing on the
Blombossilcreteflaketheoldestdrawingby
Homo sapiens ever found.
Although abstract and figurative
representations are generally considered
By Wits University
Substantial progress has been made in
understanding how our brain perceives and
processes different categories of symbols, but
our knowledge on how and when symbols
permanently permeated the culture of our
ancestors is still imprecise and speculative
.

101
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
conclusive indicators of the use of symbols,
assessing the symbolic dimension of the earliest
possible graphisms is tricky.
Symbols are an inherent part of our humanity.
They can be inscribed on our bodies in the form of
tattoosandscarificationsorcoverthemthrough
the application of particular clothing, ornaments
and the way we dress our hair.
Language, writing, mathematics, religion, and
laws could not possibly exist without the typically
human capacity to master the creation and
transmission of symbols and our ability to embody
them in material culture.
Substantial progress has been made in
understanding how our brain perceives and
processes different categories of symbols, but our
knowledge on how and when symbols permanently
permeated the culture of our ancestors is still
imprecise and speculative.
The archaeological layer in which the Blombos
drawing was found also yielded other indicators
of symbolic thinking, such as shell beads covered
with ochre, and, more importantly, pieces of
ochres engraved with abstract patterns. Some of
these engravings closely resemble the one drawn
onthesilcreteflake.
“This demonstrates that early Homo sapiens
in the southern Cape used different techniques
to produce similar signs on different media,” says
Henshilwood.
“This observation supports the hypothesis
that these signs were symbolic in nature
and represented an inherent aspect of the
behaviourally modern world of these African
Homo sapiens, the ancestors of all of us today.”

Kimberley, capital of the Northern Cape, boasts the popular tourist attraction, the Big Hole.
Right in the middle of the city, this giant 215-metre deep crater serves as a reminder of the
diamond rush of the 1870s, where prospectors carved out the largest hand-dug excavation
in the world in search of the precious gemstones. In its time, the Big Hole yielded an
incredible 2 722 kilograms of diamonds. Today, the Big Hole and its surrounds have been
converted into a museum and tourist attraction.
102
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

103
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

104
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
 #a good story to tell
President Cyril Ramaphosa has hailed the success of the inaugural South Africa Investment
Conference – which has generated announcements of investment of R290 billion – as the
beginning of a new narrative on investment in South Africa.
In his closing statement to the conference in Sandton, Johannesburg, in October 2018,
President Ramaphosa said the breadth of case studies presented on the performance
of current investments and the range of announcements relating to new and expanded
investmentsaffirmedthatSouthAfricawasadiversifiedeconomythatpresentedgreat
opportunities.
The conference heard investment announcements from companies in mining, forestry,
manufacturing, telecommunications, transport, energy, agro-processing, consumer
goods, pharmaceuticals, infrastructure, financial services, energy, information and
communications technology and water.
Prominentamongthesewerethethemesofvalueaddition,beneficiation,innovationandentrepreneurship.
President Ramaphosa also expressed his satisfaction that most of the investments announced during the conference had originated from South
Africanenterprisesandentitiesormultinationalsbasedinthecountry.ThisreflectedrenewedinvestorconfidenceinandcommitmenttoSouth
Africa after a period of uncertainty and a slowdown in investment.
The Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC), which hosted the South Africa Investment Conference, also commended the conference for setting
South Africa on a path of economic renewal and inclusive growth.
The conference was an opportunity for both domestic and international investors to identify opportunities in the country.
The South Africa Investment Conference was convened under the theme: “Accelerating Economic Growth by Building Partnerships”, and was
attended by leaders in government and business, members of the Diplomatic Corps, fund managers and entrepreneurs.
The IMC has expressed government’s deep appreciation for the spirit and focus with which investors responded to government’s invitation to
theprivatesectortohelpthecountryachieveinvestmentofUS$100billionoverthenextfiveyears.
The announced total of R290 billion in new investments complements the more than US$28 billion in investment pledges that have resulted from
engagements between the President and the President’s Investment Envoys in recent months.
SA hosts Africa Investment Forum
Pres Ramaphosa hails inaugural South Africa Investment Conference
South Africa hosted the African Development Bank’s Africa Investment Forum
(AIF), which was a world-class initiative positioned to transform the continent’s
infrastructure development landscape.
The summit took place at the Sandton Convention Centre, Johannesburg,
from 7 to 9 November 2018, under the theme: “All set for Africa’s First Investment
Marketplace”.
The AIF, which was an innovative investment marketplace, brought together project
sponsors, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, private investors, policymakers,
privateequityfirmsandheadsofgovernmenttoraisecapitaltoadvanceAfrica’s
economic transformation agenda.
The forum was 100% transaction-based, according to the African Development Bank.
“The focus is on structuring deals, screening and enhancing projects, attracting co-investors and facilitating transactions to unlock Africa’s multi-
billion dollar investment opportunities.”
Although brimming with investment opportunities, the African Development Bank says there is an urgent need to bridge the gap between Africa’s
available capital and bankable projects.
Financing Africa’s development needs will require an estimated US$600 to US$700 billion per annum.
Of this, about US$130 to US$170 billion a year is needed for infrastructure, according to the African Development Bank’s African Economic
Outlook 2018.
The bank said it was working with other multilateral development partners and stakeholders to ensure that the AIF became Africa’s key
springboard for investment and for meeting the continent’s infrastructure and development needs.
SAnews.gov.za

105
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Industrial park to inspire confidence in SA economy
Cabinet approves marine protected areas
ThenewlyrevitalisedPhuthaditjhabaIndustrialParkshouldbeusedtoinspireconfidenceintheSouthAfricaneconomy,TradeandIndustry
Deputy Minister, Bulelani Magwanishe, said on Tuesday, 30 October 2018.
“WearehereonthebackdropoftheInvestmentSummit,whichconfirmedtheconfidencethatthelocalprivatesectorandmultinationalshave
in South Africa. We therefore need to take advantage of these industrial parks to increase investment and create sustainable employment,” said
Deputy Minister Magwanishe.
TheDeputyMinisterwasspeakingatthelaunchofthefirstphaseoftherevitalisedR50-millionindustrialpark,heldatthePhuthaditjhabaMulti-
Purpose Centre in QwaQwa.
DeputyMinisterMagwanishealsonotedthattherewashopefortheSouthAfricaneconomyandthatsignifiedhopeforthepeople.
Hesaidtherevitalisationoftheeconomywasintendedtorespondtounemploymentintheprovinceandshouldalsobeexploredtobenefitnot
just the province, but the entire country.
Deputy Minister Magwanishe said the province was strategic in many respects, most important being that it connected to six provinces and was
the neighbour to the Mountain Kingdom of Lesotho.
The Deputy Minister urged the Free State Development Corporation to woo in other small, medium and micro-sized enterprises to consider
setting up shop in the park, thereby helping to “drastically” reduce unemployment.
“For 2018, Minister Rob Davies announced that R216 million had been set aside for the revitalisation of industrial parks. Phuthaditjhaba is one
ofthefiveindustrialparksthatstandtobenefit,aswewillbeproceedingwiththeotherphasesofrevitalisation.”
“Today,werecognisethecompletionofthefirstphaseoftheprogrammeinthisindustrialpark,whichwasrealisedthroughanallocationof
R50million.ThislaunchfollowsthecompletionofthefirstphaseoftheBotshabeloIndustrialParkalsohereintheFreeState,”saidDeputy
Minister Magwanishe.
Work done at the park comprised the upgrading of the security infrastructure, including fencing, street lighting, installation of boom gates,
pedestrian gates, installation of CCTV cameras and control room, as well as the refurbishment of high mast lights. SAnews.gov.za
In October 2018, acting Environmental Affairs Minister, Derek
Hanekom, said a network of 20 marine protected areas (MPAs)
would considerably advance South Africa’s efforts to protect its
ocean heritage for future generations.
Cabinet approved the declaration of 20 MPAs on 24 October
2018, as part of the Operation Phakisa: Ocean Economy MPAs
Representative Network.
Minister Hanekom welcomed the announcement, saying it
would increase ocean protection within the South African Exclusive
Economic Zone to 5%.
“The[MPAs]willcontributetofisheriessustainability,advance
marine ecotourism and help maintain resilience in ecosystems that
are under stress from climate change.”
Work on the new approved network of MPAs dates back to
2014, when the South African Government endorsed a plan to
achieve, as part of Operation Phakisa: Ocean Economy, a viable
network of MPAs.
Minister Hanekom said South Africa’s ocean space, which was one of the most varied in the world, was highly productive, with rich biodiversity
providinglivingandnon-livingresourcesthatcontributedsignificantlytothecountry’seconomyandtojobcreation.
AsSouthAfricagrowsandintensifiestheoceaneconomy,MinisterHanekomsaidarepresentativesampleofmarineecosystemsmustbe
protected to ensure their resilience to human use and impact, and also the impacts associated with climate change.
MPAsprovidesafespacesinwhichfishcanbreedundisturbed.Theyareessentialtomaintaineco-certificationoftheSouthAfricandeep-sea
trawlfishery.Thecertificationprocessassesseswhetherhabitatandnurseryareasforthehakefisheryareadequatelyprotected.
MPAs also contribute to growing South Africa’s marine eco-tourism sector by providing undisturbed natural habitat for whales, sharks, seals,
dolphins, turtles and seabirds for international and domestic tourists to experience.
SAnews.gov.za

106
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
 #a good story to tell
w
Gauteng may soon have a Ferrari workshop that fixes
models of the motor manufacturer.
Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport, Ismail Vadi, said
during a meeting held in Sandton before the South Africa-
Italy Summit, that the Chamdor automotive projects in
Krugersdorp, in which provincial government partnered with
the Italian Government, would also have a team of trained
mechanicstofixhigh-endmodels.
“The automotive hub that will be opened in the Chamdor
area in the West Rand is for after-sales support for all
brands of vehicles that may be sold in the country. We are
also looking at training for high-end vehicles like the Ferrari
because we don’t build Ferraris in this country, so Ferrari is
going to have a team dedicated to training local people in
fixingFerraris.Itmightnotbeanengineoverhaul,butifitis
an electrical problem then you would be able to go there,” Vadi said.
The Automotive Industry Development Centre (AIDC), which is Gauteng’s automotive parastatal, said the project was part of government’s
international relations initiative and Gauteng Premier, David Makhura, had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Emilia-
Romagna region in Italy.
“ThisMoUallowsboththeGautengprovinceandtheequivalentEmilia-Romagnaregiontocollaborateonvariousmutuallybeneficial
programmes” said AIDC spokesperson Mashadi Mangale.
ShesaidtheChamdorhubwouldbringsignificanteconomicactivitytotheWestRandandhadtargeted15smallbusinesses,whichwouldbe
specialising in mechanical and auto body repairs, as well as parts sales.
Sheaddedthatthehubwouldbeservicedbymasterartisansandotherleadingprofessionalsintheautomotivefield,andthatitwouldbea
centre for training and skills transfer in the motor industry.
www.city-press.news24.com
Amazon to open new SA data centres, promising cheaper, safer services for corporate clients
Ferrari Workshop in the pipeline for Gauteng
Amazon will open additional data centres in South Africa at
the start of 2020, it announced recently.
The data centres will reduce latency and costs for local
corporate clients. They will also ensure that Amazon adheres
to upcoming legislation to prevent personal info from being
moved out of the country without consent.
This will add to the Amazon Web Services (AWS) data
servers already built in South Africa, and will make sub-
SaharanAfricaAmazon’sfirstinfrastructureregioninAfrica.
The data centres will bring AWS in line with South Africa’s
upcoming Protection of Personal Information Act, which will
ensure that data is not moved out of the country without an
individual’s consent.
Andy Jassy, AWS CEO, said the new infrastructure region
promised to reduce costs for corporate clients, improve security and decrease downtime.
“Having built the original version of Amazon EC2 (the foundation of AWS) in our Cape Town development centre 14 years ago, and with
thousandsofAfricancompaniesusingAWSforyears,we’vebeenabletowitnessfirst-handthetechnicaltalentandpotentialinAfrica,”Jassysaid
in a statement.
“Technology has the opportunity to transform lives and economies across Africa and we’re excited about AWS and the Cloud being a meaningful
part of that transformation.”
www.businessinsider.co.za

107
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
w
Travel rules relaxed for foreign parents travelling with children
New heritage centre at !Khwa Ttu reclaims the San’s voice
In a bid to increase tourism, the Department of Home Affairs has relaxed travel rules for
foreigners visiting South Africa with minors.
The then Minister of Home Affairs, Malusi Gigaba, announced on Tuesday, 25 September
2018, that documentation proving parental consent for a minor to travel was no longer a
requirement. However, it was strongly recommended that travellers carry this documentation,
he said.
“Ourimmigrationofficialswillonlyinsistondocumentationbyexception–inhigh-risk
situations – rather than for all travellers, in line with practice by several other countries,”
former Minister Gigaba said.
He added that instead of being denied entry where documentation was absent, travellers would be given the opportunity to prove parental
consent.
SouthAfricans,however,willstillberequiredtoproveparentalconsentandhaveanunabridgedbirthcertificateiftheywanttotravelabroad
with their minor children.
MinisterGigabaalsoannouncedapassportforminorsthatwouldeventuallyseetheendofunabridgedbirthcertificatesasthedocumentwill
have the contact details of both parents.
www.news24.com
TheSan,theindigenouspeopleofsouthernAfrica,isfindingtheirvoiceatthenewSan
Heritage Centre at !Khwa Ttu on the West Coast near Yzerfontein.
Thenewmuseumtellstheirownstory–fromthefirstpeopleofAfrica,totheirmyths,
totheirfirstencounterswithothergroups–aswellassharetheirculture,formingnew
relationships between visitors, community members and academia.
A dream to build a self-sustaining centre where the San can upskill, learn their heritage
and transmit it to others started in 1999, when Swiss photographer Irene Staehelin bought
a derelict farm and has over the past 20 years converted it into a place where the San can
teach their culture to younger generations.
“The !Khwa ttu San Heritage Centre is a great deal more than a collection of artefacts and historical photos. It’s a pioneering initiative that
embraces the principle of community curation, led by San consultants from across southern Africa and academics.  The exhibitions, San-led trails
and guided experiences are designed to engage the body and senses as much as the mind,” explains Michael Daiber, General Manager of !Khwa
ttu.
“They demonstrate the skills and knowledge of the San people, while also telling the archaeological story of the origins of the modern mind on
the southern African coastline.”
Besides the new museum, !Khwa ttu also offers elegant accommodation in cottages and glamping tents, as well as game drives and a
restaurant that serves delicious traditional South African cuisine. The San youth go on training courses through these initiatives which teaches
them skills in hospitality and tourism, relaying their heritage as guides and learning about themselves and their roots in the process.
Traveller24
French hardware store Leroy Merlin opens in Joburg
LeroyMerlin,whichhasbeenretailinghardwareinFrancesince1960,openeditsfirstfull
South African store in Johannesburg on 28 September 2018.
It isn’t exactly a household name in South Africa, but Leroy Merlin has been selling
hardware under that name in France since 1960, and it traces its history back to 1923, in the
form of a store named, Au Stock Américain.
In1989,itbrokeoutofitshomecountryforthefirsttime,anditnowhasbig-boxstoresin
Russia, Brazil and a number of European countries.
Today, by its count, Leroy Merlin’s parent group ADEO is the third-largest “DIY actor” in
the world.
www.businessinsider.co.za

108
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
 #a good story to tell
AleadingUnitedKingdomwineexperthasrecentlyaffordedhisfirst-ever
perfect score to a wine in the New World (Argentina, Australia, Canada,
Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States) – and it happens to
be a local wine: the 2015 Kanonkop Paul Sauer.
Master of Wine Tim Atkin, who has contributed on wine for the Observer,
Harper’s, The Economist and the BBC for the past three decades, has just
released his seventh annual guide to South African wine.
Atkin says the 2015 Kanonkop Paul Sauer is “one of the greatest young
wines I have ever tasted” and he gave it 100 points (out of 100). Kanonkop
Paul Sauer 2015 is a blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 15% Merlot and
15% Cabernet Franc.
Atkin gave two South African white wines a near-perfect score of 99:
2017 Alheit Vineyards Magnetic North and 2017 Sadie Family ’T Voetpad.
“I don’t give very high scores lightly,” Atkin said, “but these three stunning,
world-class wines have earned it.”
“To achieve the magical 100pt rating is a huge honour for Kanonkop,
Stellenbosch and the South African wine industry as a whole,” said
Kanonkop co-owner, Johann Krige.
“Never has more great wine been made by as many producers from
around the world as now. This leads to critics such as Atkin having to be
extremely judicious when deciding to award perfect scores, hence the rarity of such ratings,” says Krige.

www.businessinsider.co.za
Durban launched R1,4-billion highway interchange – with four levels and Africa’s longest flyover bridge
This South African wine receives a perfect score from top UK wine expert
Durban recently added an architectural and engineering marvel to its portfolio of landmarks.
The newly upgraded Mount Edgecombe highway interchange connects the M41 eastbound
with the N2 southbound.
The old interchange was known for long waiting times – which the upgrade is due to cut from
25 minutes to one minute, on average.
TheMountEdgecombehighwayinterchangewasofficiallyopenedbyTransportMinister,
Blade Nzimande, and the South African National Roads Agency (SANRAL) on Wednesday,
31 October 2018.
TheinterchangeboastsafirstforAfrica,accordingtoSANRAL CEO, Skhumbuzo Macozoma,
inaninterviewwiththestatebroadcaster.Hesaysitfeaturesthecontinent’slongestflyoverramp
that stretches for one kilometre, linking the M41 eastbound with the N2 southbound, connecting
surrounding areas like Phoenix and Umhlanga with Durban.
TheagencyundertookmajorupgradestotheinterchangefromApril2013toease“chroniccongestionoftraffic”inthearea,notoriousforlong
waitingtimes,especiallyduringthefestiveseason,whenSouthAfricansflocktothecoastalregion.
www.businessinsider.co.za

109
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Cruise season is docking at peak heights in Cape T own
Space science capabilities earn South Africa global recognition
South Africa has won an extraordinary victory in space science,
with the South African National Space Agency (SANSA) being
selected by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO)
to become the designated regional provider of space weather
information to the entire aviation sector using African airspace.
Thismeansthateveryaircraftflyinginthecontinent’sairspace
will rely on SANSA for the space weather information it needs to
submitaspartofitsflightplan.
Space weather,which can influence the performance and
reliability of aviation and other technological systems, is
causedbytheSun,thenatureoftheEarth’smagneticfieldand
atmosphere and the Earth’s location in the solar system.
SANSA, an entity of the Department of Science and Technology, underwent an extensive assessment to earn the distinction of becoming one
of two ICAO-designated regional space weather centres – the other being a joint Russia-China centre.
SANSA will partner with one of the ICAO’s three global space weather centres, PECASUS, the Pan-European Consortium for Aviation Space
Weather User Services, to provide ICAO with space weather information for the African region.
PECASUS is a consortium of nine European countries, and partnering with it will provide South Africa with better access to international models
and expertise.
This victory came shortly after the launch of the continent’s most advanced nanosatellite so far, the ZACube-2, in December 2018.
The use of space science and technology for the good of the nation is the aim of South Africa’s National Space Policy and National Space
Strategy,andspaceweatherinformationhasbothnationalandinternationalbenefits.
South Africa’s international reputation has also been enhanced, with the country now seen as a leading player in the space science sector.
In January 2019 alone, 17 stops were made at the city’s port, and between October and
20 January, a total of 17 518 people disembarked in the city from vessels carrying 6 562 crew
members. Over 17 500 people embarked on ships in the same period.
 Some of the luxury liners to have visited the city’s shores include the gigantic RMS
Queen Elizabeth and MSC Musica, as well as the World Odyssey, the Europa 2, the Seven
Seas Explorer, the Nautica and the Amadea.
Other still to pay a visit to the Mother City include the Queen Victoria, the Silver Cloud, the
Pacific Princess and the Viking Sun.
 The increased numbers are in part due to the opening of the dedicated cruise ship terminal
atV&AWaterfront,andexpect30vesselsmaking49stopsforthe2019/20seasonand32vesselswith67stopsconfirmedforthe2020/21season.
 The Minister of Economic Opportunities in the Western Cape, Beverley Schäfer, is extremely positive about the potential this industry has for
the province’s tourism numbers, with 30 million expected to cruise somewhere in the world in 2019, according to the Cruise Lines International
Association.
 “As a province, our aim, through Project Khulisa, has been to grow tourism as a vehicle to stimulate the economy and create new jobs, and
cruise ship tourism is helping us to do this. The Western Cape tourism industry currently sustains over 300 000 direct and indirect jobs, and by
increasing the number of cruise liners visiting Cape Town, we can create further opportunities for work and skills development,” says Schäfer.
The cruise industry has been undeniably picking up steam over the last few years as it grew from a humble 6 050 passengers in 2012 to a
massive 31 035 passengers in 2017.
www.news24.co.za

110
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
Flying
the flag
U
niversity of Pretoria (UP) students, supported by
the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) and
representing Africa, won the Moot Court Competition
of the International Institute of Space Law (IISL) on the
sidelines of the International Austronautical Congress
(IAC) 2018 in Bremen, Germany, in October 2018.
Simon Motshweni and Simon Botha beat students
from India’s Symbiosis International University to walk
away with the first prize of more than R10 000 in a
competition where they excelled themselves before the
International Court of Justice judges in a mock case on
the internal outer space law.
The Chief Director of Space Affairs at the dti,
Nomfuneko Majaja, who also serves as the Africa
Regional Coordinator for the competition, has praised the
studentsforflyingtheAfricanandSouthAfricanflagshigh
in the highly-competitive international contest.
“Thishappensatatimewhenthedtiisatthefinalstages
of reviewing the South African primary space legislation,
which will provide an opportunity for engagement as
well as stimulate interest among university students,
policymakers and industry in this complex area of space
law. The UP students exhibited excellent standard and
quality as well as presented themselves in an articulate
manner,whichconfirmedthatAfricahaswhatittakesto
stand on the international fora. What makes the students’
achievement even more remarkable is that Africa joined
the competition only six years ago,” said Ms Majaja.
The competition is internationally arranged by the
IISL on an annual basis in four regions of the world,
namelyAfrica,NorthAmerica,EuropeandAsiaPacific.
It presents an opportunity for university students in the
areas of law and science to engage on legal policy
and regulatory aspects in the highly specialised area
ofspacelawandrelatedfieldssuchasaerospaceand
telecommunications.
Pretoria students win International Space Law Competition in Germany

111
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
South Africans shine in “Strictly Comes Dancing UK”
He said: “Joining Strictly Come Dancing is one
of the greatest achievements of my dancing
career. It is such an honour to be chosen to
be a part of an incredible cast and be part of
one of the biggest shows that is celebrated
worldwide. I cannot wait to get started and
experience the magic with the UK!”
The 31-year-old Latin champion was
recently seen on Dancing with the Stars
SA during which he partnered with South
African netball player, Vanes-Mari du Toit.
Thepairmadeittothesemi-finalroundofthe
competition.
Born in Pretoria, Oti Mabuse started dancing
at the age of four at her mother’s dance
school in Mabopane.
“My mom and sisters were my trainers
and coaches in the beginning of my career
and they’ve always played an important
part of my dancing career. When I was 16
years old, I started training in contemporary
dance with the incredible Lorcia Cooper.
      “I then moved to Germany and three years
later, I was the German champion, the vice
European champion and took third place at
the world championships. After all that, life
took me in a different direction and I ended up
doing German Strictly and now Strictly Come
Dancing UK.”
Mabuse won the South African Latin
American Championship eight times, after
which she moved to Germany to broaden her
dancing horizons. She has earned a number
of titles in her dancing career; including:
• third place in World Cup Freestyle Latin
in 2014
• second place European Championship
Latin in 2014
• firstplaceinGermanChampionshipPD
Freestyle Latin.
This was her fourth season on Strictly Come
Dancing UK.
T
he popular United Kingdom (UK) show,
Strictly Comes Dancing , kicked off in
September 2018. It featured the biggest
pro dancer line-up with 18 professionals
participating – and two of them were from
South Africa.
Johannes Radebe is two-time professional
South African Latin Champion and three-
time South African Amateur Latin Champion.
He is a dancer with the Afro Arimba Dance
Company and has also been a professional
dancer on Strictly Come Dancing South Africa
fortwoseasons,bothtimesreachingthefinal.
FLYING THE FLAG | FEATURE
SA teen wins Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2018
I
n October 2018, 16-year-old South African
Skye Meaker was named Young Wildlife
Photographer of the Year 2018 at a ceremony
at the Natural History Museum, London, which
runs the international competition.
Skye won the award for his charming
portrait of a leopard waking from sleep in
Mashatu Game Reserve, Botswana.
He said he had wanted to be a nature
photographersincereceivinghisfirstpocket
camera at the age of seven.
Mathoja the leopard’s home is Botswana’s
Mashatu Game Reserve, which Skye and his
family regularly visit.
Though she dozed just metres away from
Skye, she blended into the background,
the morning light was poor, leaves kept
blowing across her face, and her eyes
wereonlyeveropenbriefly,makingithard
for Skye to compose the shot he was after.
Finally, just as she opened her eyes for
a second, the overhead branches moved
enough to let in a shaft of light that gave a
glint to her eyes, helping Skye create his
memorable portrait.
“With precisely executed timing and
composition, we get a coveted glimpse
into the inner world of one of the most
frequently photographed, yet rarely truly
seen, animals,” said competition judge and
previous competition winner, Alexander
Badyaev.
The exhibition at the Natural History
Museum opened on 19 October 2018
before touring across the United Kingdom
and internationally.
Three other South African
photographers were also recognised,
namely: Tertius A Gous, Isak Pretorius and
Susan Scott.
www.iol.co.za

112
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES
Wits doctors per-
form a world-first
HIV + transplant to
save a child’s life
SA Youth Olympics Team returns home with five medals
I
n October 2018, the South African Youth
Olympics team received a warm welcome at
the OR Tambo International Airport following
a successful showing at the 2018 games in
Buenos Aires in Argentina. The team bagged
five medals, four better than the previous
edition in Nanjing China.
In his message to the athletes, the
Deputy Minister of Sports and Recreation,
Gert Oosthuizen, praised them on their
achievements.
There was no medal target set for this
team at the games prior to the two-week
competition.
However, their success is measured by
surpassing the medal count from China four
years ago. There were some outstanding
performances from Team South Africa that will
boosttheathletes’confidenceforupcoming
tournaments.
The medals won suggest that reaching
Tokyo 2020 is a target.
“It was a surprise. I was not expecting to
win. I just went out to run and I came with
perfect results for my country. It’s just really
an honour for me, especially representing
my country in the green and gold. It means
the world to me,” said Youth Olympics Gold
Medalist Luke Davids.
Silver medalist Dune Coetzee said: “This
was a really amazing experience because
we got to race against the best in the world.
Ithinkitdefinitelycountsforthebigstage.
We will have more experience and know how
it is to race against big people and not get
scared when we get onto the big stage. So,
Ithinkthatthiswasdefinitelyoneofthebest
experiences I have ever had.”
The hope is that these athletes will
progress to senior level and represent the
country at the Olympics. The games will next
be held in Senegal in 2022, which will be the
firsttimetheeventishostedinAfrica.
www.sabc.com
Groundbreaking liver surgery receives applause
A
historic and successful liver transplant from
a HIV-positive mother to her HIV-negative
child has received resounding applause.
Giving feedback on the outcomes of
the Cabinet Meeting, held on Wednesday,
10 October 2018, former Communications
Minister, Nomvula Mokonyane, congratulated
the team of researchers from Wits University,
who performed the historic surgery.
The team of doctors who performed
the surgery included Prof. Jean Botha,
Dr Francesca Conradie, Dr Harriet Etheredge,
Dr June Fabian and Prof. Caroline Tiemessen.
Meanwhile, Cabinet also noted that
South Africa’s radio telescope, the MeerKAT,
would be joining Breakthrough Listen, an
international initiative seeking signs of
intelligent life in the universe.
“It demonstrates our internationally recognised
expertise and infrastructure,” said Minister
Mokonyane.
South Africa’s 64-dish MeerKAT radio
telescope, inaugurated in July this year, is
the most sensitive telescope of its kind in the
world.
SAnews.gov.za

113
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE
Goosen set to be inducted into World Golf Hall of Fame
Nicholas Haysom appointed Special Representative for Somalia and Head of the United
Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM)
T
wo-time major champion Retief Goosen
will be inducted into the World Golf Hall of
Fame this year.
Goosen joins Billy Payne, Jan Stephenson,
Dennis Walters and the late Peggy Kirk Bell,
who will all officially join the ranks as the
Class of 2019.
Thefivenewmemberswillbeenshrined
at the World Golf Hall of Fame induction
ceremony on Monday, 10 June 2019, at
Pebble Beach in the week of the men’s US
Open.
The ceremony will take place at the Sunset
Centre in Carmel-By-The-Sea, California.
Goosen, 49, was picked in the “Male
Competitor Category” with the criteria for
selection being to have won 15 or more
professional titles, won two or more majors
and to be at least 50 years old during the year
of a given induction ceremony.
Known affectionately as “The Goose”,
Goosen sat within the Official World Golf
Ranking’s top 10 for more than 250 weeks
from 2001 through 2007.
His 33 worldwide wins include two US
Open Championships in 2001 – the same
year he was named European Tour Player of
the Year – and 2004.
Goosen led the European Tour Order of
Merit in 2001 and 2002. He also played in six
consecutive Presidents Cups from 2000 to
2011 as part of the International Team.
Goosen will join Ernie Els, Gary Player and
Bobby Locke as the only South Africans in the
World Golf Hall of Fame.
sport24.co.za
O
n 12 September 2018, United Nations
(UN) Secretary-General, António
Guterres, announced the appointment of
Nicholas Haysom of South Africa as his
Special Representative for Somalia and Head
of the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia.
He succeeded Michael Keating of the
United Kingdom effective 1 October 2018,
to whom the Secretary-General was grateful
for his exemplary service and leadership of
UNSOM.
Haysom is a lawyer with a long
international career with a focus on democratic
governance, constitutional and electoral
reforms, reconciliation and peace processes.
He was the Special Envoy for Sudan and
South Sudan, a position he held since
2016. Prior to this, he served as the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for
Afghanistan and Head of the UN Assistance
Mission in Afghanistan from 2014 to 2016,
and as Deputy Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Afghanistan from 2012
to 2014. He was also Director for Political,
Peacekeeping and Humanitarian Affairs in the
ExecutiveOfficeoftheUNSecretary-General
from2007to2012,andHeadoftheOfficeof
Constitutional Support for the UN Assistance
Mission in Iraq from 2005 to 2007.
In his earlier career, Haysom served in the
Government of South Africa, including as Chief
LegalandConstitutionalAdviserintheOffice
of the President from 1994 to 1999. He was
involved in the Burundi Peace Talks as Chair
of the committee negotiating constitutional
issues from 1999 to 2002 under the facilitation
of the late former President Nelson Mandela.
He was the principal adviser to the Mediator
in the Sudanese Peace Process from 2002 to
2005.
Haysom earned a degree in Law from the
universities of Natal and Cape Town in South
Africa. In 2012, he received an honorary
doctorate from the University of Cape Town.
Brazil honours Minister Zulu
I
n September 2018, Cabinet congratulated
Small Business Development Minister,
Lindiwe Zulu, after she was honoured by the
Brazilian Government.
The Brazilian Government bestowed
Mnister Zulu with the highest level of the
Order of Rio Branco (Ordem de Rio Branco)
and the Grand Cross, in recognition of her
service and achievement in the diplomatic
service.
“This is in recognition for the Minister’s
continuous efforts to enhance bilateral
relations between Brazil and South Africa,”
then Communications Minister, Nomvula
Mokonyane, said during a post-Cabinet
mediabriefingonThursday,20September
2018, in Tshwane.
Minister Mokonyane said the Order of Brazil
was granted to those who had distinguished
themselves in acts of meritorious service and
civic virtues.
 Minister Zulu served as South African
Ambassador to Brazil between 2004 and
2008.
She received the order from Brazil’s
Ambassador to South Africa, Nedilson Jorge,
on 7 September in Waterkloof, Pretoria, as
that country celebrated Brazil National Day.
“The Order of Rio Branco is awarded
annually to Brazilian and foreign nationals
for service and achievement in diplomatic
service, government and civil fields,” the
Department of Small Business Development
said in a statement.
SAnews.gov.za

114
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | FLYING THE FLAG
Minister Davies congratulates Invest SA on winning Top UCTAD Award
Minister Motsoaledi receives international prizes for role in fight against TB
S
outh Africa won the top global award at
the United Nations Investment Promotion
Awards for its excellence in boosting
investment sectors that have social and
economicbenefitsandhelpcountriesmeet
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The awards, organised by the United
Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), honour investment-
promotions agencies and their governments
for their achievements, but also showcase
best practices in attracting investment
into SDG-related projects that can inspire
investment-promotion practitioners in
developing and developed countries. The
award was presented at a high-profile
ceremony in the Assembly Hall of the Palais
des Nations, Geneva, Switzerland, at the
grand opening of the World Investment Forum
in October 2018.
South Africa was also named as the Global
Destination of the Year at the 2018 Global
Sourcing Association Awards ceremony
alongside the Global Sourcing Summit in
Cape Town. This award was South Africa’s
fifthsince2012,andisfurtheraccoladeand
recognition of South Africa’s value proposition
and credible offering that combine global
best practice, a talented and scalable labour
pool with government support to attract
international outsourcing work into South
Africa.
“This prestigious global award indicates
that South Africa’s industrial development is
playing an important role towards its economic
growth and our investment drive is already
starting to make a significant contribution
towards achieving its SDGs. InvestSA is
now globally recognised to compete in
investment promotion and facilitation of large
scale investments. As part of President Cyril
Ramaphosa’s mobilisation drive to attract
investments, these global awards signify and
demonstrate that government is committed to
improving its investment climate and service
to investors,” said Minister Davies.
The prestigious global award was
presented to InvestSA for its role in facilitating
two pioneering waste-to-nutrient recycling
projects to up-cycle organic waste into
natural, sustainable high-protein animal
feed. Each project will offer much-needed
jobs in local communities and is expected to
save an annual 80 000 metric tons of carbon
dioxide emissions by diverting organic waste
fromthelandfill.Theawardwaspresented
by the President of the 73rd session of the
United Nations General Assembly, Ms María
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés.
Minister Davies said that the award was
a commendable international recognition
that partnerships played an important role in
boosting investments in sectors as the award
was for intergovernmental projects facilitated
together with the Gauteng Provincial
Government, Technology Innovation Agency
and GreenCape.
I
n October 2018, the Minister of Health, Aaron
Motsoaledi, was honoured with two Kochon
prizes in The Hague, Netherlands, after
he was recognised for his role and political
leadership in the fight against tuberculosis
(TB) globally.
The Kochon Prize is awarded annually
to individuals and organisations that have
madeasignificantcontributiontocombatting
TB. The prize was established in 2006 in
honour of the late Chong-Kun Lee, founder
and Chairperson of the Chong Kun Dang
Pharmaceutical Corporation and Kochon
Foundation in Korea.
Lee was committed throughout his career
to improving access to low-cost lifesaving
antibiotics and anti-TB drugs, the Department
of Health said in a statement.
In accepting the awards, one of which he
shared with a United Kingdom MP, Minister
Motsoaledi said he was deeply humbled to be
considered for the prestigious Kochon Prize.
“I wish to thank the Chairperson and
members of the Kochon Foundation for this
honour which I accept on behalf of everyone
who has worked tirelessly to decrease the
number of new TB infections and deaths
as we work towards the elimination of TB
as a public health threat globally,” Minister
Motsoaledi said in his acceptance speech.
“I know that this may sound clichéd but
the Kochon Prize for 2018 is for all of us, and
acknowledges our passion, determination
and hard work that brought us this far and,
ifsustained,willtakeusoverthefinishline. 
Source: www.news24.com

115
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FLYING THE FLAG | FEATURE
Banyana’s Thembi Kgatlana and Desiree Ellis win CAF awards
I
t was a great night for South African football
in Dakar, Senegal, in January 2019 when
Banyana Banyana’s Thembi Kgatlana won
the CAF Women’s Player of the Year and
Goal of the Year and Desiree Ellis won Coach
of the Year at the annual awards ceremony.
As expected, Mohamed Salah (Egypt &
Liverpool) walked off with the Player of the
Year for the second year after yet more goal-
scoring exploits for his club and country.
Meanwhile, Uganda and Mamelodi
Sundowns goalkeeper, Dennis Onyango, was
named the best goalkeeper in Africa.
The list of CAF Awards 2018 winners:
• Player of the Year: Mohamed Salah (Egypt
& Liverpool)
• Womens Player of the Year: Chrestinah
Thembi Kgatlana (South Africa & Houston
Dash)
• Youth Player of the Year: Achraf Hakimi
(Morocco & Borussia Dortmund)
• Mens Coach of the Year: Herve Renard
(Morocco)
• Womens Coach of the Year: Desiree Ellis
(South Africa)
• Mens National Team of the Year: Mauritania
• Womens National Team of the Year: Nigeria
• Platinum Award: His Excellency Macky Sall
(President of the Republic of Senegal)
• Federation President of the Year: Fouzi
Lekjaa
• Goal of the Year: Chrestinah Thembi
Kgatlana (South Africa & Houston Dash).
www.citizen.co.za
SA wins bid to host major astronomy conference In 2024
S
outh Africa has won the bid to host
the 2024 General Assembly of the
International Astronomical Union (IAU) –
thefirstonAfricansoilinits105thyearof
existence.
The decision was announced by newly-
elected IAU Pesident, Professor Ewine
van Dishoeck, at the association's General
Assembly in Vienna.
The IAU was founded in 1919 with a
mission to promote and safeguard science of
astronomy through international cooperation.
It has 12 557 individual members in 90
countries.
The Minister of Science and Technology,
Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, congratulated
the bid committee on their sterling work.
Minister Kubayi-Ngubane said securing the
bid was proof that Africa was the next big hub
for astronomy with mega projects, including
the MeerKAT, Square Kilometre Array and
African Very Long Baseline Interferometry
Network.
"I am delighted that the international
community is recognising the investments
and concerted efforts that South Africa has
been making in growing the discipline of
astronomy in Africa.”
The Minister added that the occasion
would give a voice to Africa in the global
astronomical endeavour and would bring
attention to the "excellent science and
education conducted on the continent".
Held every three years, the IAU General
Assembly is the biggest international meeting
of the astronomy community.

S
outh African diplomat, Ambassador Anil
Sooklal; Indian-American International
Monetary Fund chief economist, Gita
Gopinath; and Norwegian MP Himanshu
Gulati were among 30 non-resident
Indians (NRIs), Indian-origin people and
their organisations named for the Pravasi
Bharatiya Samman Award on Wednesday,
23 January 2019.
The Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award is
the highest honour conferred by the President
of India as part of the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas
(PBD) Conventions on a NRI, Person of Indian
Origin (PIOs) or organisation or institution
established and run by NRIs or PIOs.
On presenting the awards, President Ram
Nath Kovind in his address said that India
today was a land of billion ideas and billion
opportunities.
“I invite each one of you to become a part
of India’s growth story which is being etched
by its billion minds. We want to leverage
your technology, know-how and investment
to power our Make in India, Digital India,
Clean India and Skill India programmes,” the
President said.
Prof. Dr Anil Sooklal is a diplomat
and senior official at the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation and
served in the South African High Commission
in India. He also served as Ambassador to the
European Union, Belgium and Luxemburg.
Dr Sooklal has a D.Phil in Religious Studies
and Ph.D in Oriental Studies, both from the
University of KwaZulu-Natal. In addition to
his duties as Deputy Director-General, he
also serves as South Africa’s Sherpa for
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
(BRICS); G-20; IBSA (India, Brazil, South
Africa); and National Focal Point for the Indian
Ocean Rim Association. Prof. Dr Sooklal’s
knowledge and experience in diplomacy and
international affairs, especially of Asia, Middle
East and India, ensure that he continues to
be an influential person in South Africa’s
bureaucracy.
The PBD is held on 9 January to mark
Mahatma Gandhi’s return to India from South
Africa in 1915, where he spent 20 years
fightingdiscrimination.Thisyear,itwastimed
to afford the opportunity to the members of the
Indian Diaspora to attend the Kumbh Mela as
well as the Republic Day parade.
The Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award
was conferred to 11 South Africans thus far,
including Pravin Gordhan, Ahmed Kathrada,
Fatima Meer, Ela Gandhi, Essop Pahad,
Ebrahim Ebrahim and Billy Nair.
President Cyril Ramaphosa attended
the Republic Day parade in Delhi as Chief
Guest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “At
a time when India is marking the 150th birth
anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, it is our
honour to welcome President Ramaphosa as
the Chief Guest for the 2019 Republic Day
celebrations. Bapu’s close link with South
Africa is well known,” said Prime Minister
Modi in a tweet.
South Africa and India enjoy deep historical
relations and President Ramaphosa’s visit
further cemented the bilateral ties between
the two countries.
Diplomatic Society
Brand South AfricaBrand South Africa
Try South Africa. On a continent that is
considered the world’s future for the next 20
years in terms of growth and demand, South
Africa delivers world-class infrastructure and a
sophisticated business environment. Come to
Africa and choose the country that has been
voted the top investment destination in Africa.
Choose South Africa.
Go to www.southafrica.info
TOKYO, BERLIN
OR SHANGHAI?
c  Gautrain Management Agency
10027952/E
10027952 BSA  BRICS_Ubunt Magazine_ A4.indd   1 2018/06/01   10:55 AM
116
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
FEATURE | FLYING THE FLAG
“Test-tube” lion cubs a world-first
Amb Sooklal receives prestigious Indian award
T
hebirthoftheworld’sfirstinvitrofertilisation
lion cubs in September 2018 marked a
pioneering moment for the conservation of big
cat species.
Developed by a research team at the
University of Pretoria (UP), a study into
the reproductive physiology of the female
African lion has led to the birth of two of the
world’sfirstlioncubstobebornbyartificial
insemination.
The cubs were born to a lioness at the
Ukutula Conservation Centre and Biobank in
the North West province.
Professor Andre Ganswindt of the UP
Mammal Research Institute, said this could
combat the threat of extinction facing several
big cats around the world.
“There are tremendous threats to wildlife
due to loss of habitat and anthropogenic
pressures, which also affect big cats. That
is why a number of species are listed as
vulnerable or endangered.”
Thisstudyexaminedartificialinsemination
protocols for the female African lion, but could
be used as a baseline for other endangered
large, wild felines. Ganswindt said this was a
pre-emptive measure to ensure techniques
were developed before a species was
critically endangered.
“To have the opportunity to stabilise
populationsevenwithartificialbreeding,you
have to have the necessary techniques well
ahead of the time when it is necessary.
“That is why you cannot develop these
techniques on a critically endangered species.
In South Africa, we have a relatively stable lion
population and that allows us to use lions as
the forefront species to collect the knowledge
for techniques that can be used on big cats
that are critically endangered.”
The project’s main researcher, Dr Isabel
Callealta, said: “The next step is to continue
looking for the right protocols for the large
feline species. This information will be used
todevelopprotocolsforartificialinsemination
for this and other endangered feline species.”
www.citizen.co.za

Brand South Africa
Brand South Africa
Try South Africa. On a continent that is
considered the world’s future for the next 20
years in terms of growth and demand, South
Africa delivers world-class infrastructure and a
sophisticated business environment. Come to
Africa and choose the country that has been
voted the top investment destination in Africa.
Choose South Africa.
Go to www.southafrica.info
TOKYO, BERLIN
OR SHANGHAI?
c  Gautrain Management Agency
10027952/E
10027952 BSA  BRICS_Ubunt Magazine_ A4.indd   1 2018/06/01   10:55 AM
117
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
MANDELA AND TAMBO: A LIFETIME AS COMRADES | FEATURE

More tourists are coming to South Africa to enjoy the country’s many attractions. South Africa
recorded 6 852 972 traveller movements at its ports of entry for the period 1 December 2018 to
15 January 2019, up from 6 811 510 movements in 2018. The top nationalities cleared at ports
of entry over this period were from Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Swaziland, Botswana,
United Kingdom, Germany, United States, Namibia and Zambia. OR Tambo International
Airport cleared the highest volumes, with 997 167. It was followed by Beitbridge at 884 992,
Lebombo with 625 975, Ficksburg Bridge with 471 474 and Maseru Bridge with 428 038.
118
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17

119
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

120
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
T
he FNB JoburgArtFair, Africa’s
leading art fair, was held in
September 2018 and again
focussed on contemporary
art from the continent and
Diaspora. In its 11th year,
it continued to strengthen this position by
Africa’s leading art fair
celebrates 11 years
presentingthefinestofcontemporaryAfrican
art alongside memorable exhibitions and
groundbreaking initiatives.
The relevance of art holds distinct roles
around the world. It ranges from cultural to
educational, and in each instance holds a
deeply personal perspective to everyone
whom it touches. It is in many ways a socio-
barometer of the times and its true impact has
boundless potential.
The JoburgArtFair has become an iconic
event that continues to unearth many a talent,
andinsodoing,helpstodefinetheimagerythat
is associated with Africa and its modern art.
The JoburgArtFair has become an iconic event that continues to unearth
many a talent, and in so doing, helps to define the imagery that is
associated with Africa and its modern art.

121
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
The fair provides African artists and galleries
a platform through which to showcase their
considerable talent. It has become a sought-
after event for collectors, investors and
enthusiasts alike, drawing an ever-increasing
number of local and international visitors,
forever entrenching the love for the arts to
newer audiences each year.
In 2018, the FNB JoburgArtFair featured
over 45 galleries, with 15 new exhibitors
of contemporary and modern arts, special
projects and solo exhibitions by galleries
and organisations. It was the most diverse
representation from the continent in the
history of the fair, with exhibitors from Angola,
Ethiopia, Ghana, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nigeria, Uganda and Zimbabwe.
In line with the fair’s leading role on the
continent, the 2018 featured artist was
Malawian-born Billie Zangewa, who lives
and works in Johannesburg and primarily
uses raw silk off-cuts to create intricate hand-
stitchedcollagesinflat,colourfulpanache.
The FNB Art Prize went to Cape Town-born
artist and activist Haroon Gunn-Salie. The
prize honours exceptional artistic talent and,
at the same time, provides many local and
international opportunities beyond the fair,
often resulting in a springboard that catapults
the artists’ career to a higher level. Gunn-Salie
joined the ranks of previous winners such as
Peju Alatise, Nolan Oswald Dennis, Turiya
Magadlela, Portia Zvavahera and Kudzanai
Chiurai. He received a cash prize as well as
the opportunity to create a new project that
was showcased in a dedicated exhibition
space at the FNB JoburgArtFair.
Gunn-Salie has established a collaborative
art practice that translates community oral
histories into artistic interventions and
installations. His multidisciplinary practice
uses a variety of mediums, drawing focus
to forms of collaboration in contemporary art
based on dialogue and exchange.
Currently based between Johannesburg
and Belo Horizonte (Brazil), Gunn-Salie
completed his BA Hons in sculpture at the
Michaelis School of Fine Art in 2012. His
graduate exhibition, titled Witness, presented
asite-specificbodyofwork,focussingonstill
unresolved issues of forced removals under
apartheid, working with veteran residents of
District Six, an area in central Cape Town
where widespread forced removals occurred.
Faye Mfikwe, Chief Marketing Officer at
FNB, said that the FNB Art Prize honoured
exceptional artistic talent and, at the same
time, provided the winning artist local and
international opportunities for the artist and
the industry.
“Our commitment to the FNB JoburgArtFair
ensures that in the years to come, we continue
to introduce African artists to an international
audience, galleries, collectors,writers,
thinkers and art lovers from across the world,
further enabling growth through maintaining a
platform that empowers the artist.”
The 2018 judging panel for the FNB Art
Prize consisted of Pulane Kingston, Khwezi
Gule and Amy Ellenbogen, FNB JoburgArtFair
Curator of Galleries & VIP.

122
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
E
ast met Africa in a thrilling
fashion and cultural fusion
at the African Fashion
International (AFI) Joburg
Fashion Week 2018,
held from 4 to 6 October
2018 at Melrose Arch, before closing
with two spectacular final shows at iconic
Johannesburg landmarks on 7 October.
AFI Joburg Fashion Week 2018
showcased the best of African fashion with
asprinkleofAsianflavour.Slatedtoshow
alongside fashion design stars from across
the continent, including Nigeria’s Deola
Sagoe and Clan, were ranges from renowned
South African designers such as David Tlale,
Laduma and Gavin Rajah who created
a glorious fashion melting-pot with Asian
designers from Japan, Cambodia and China.
South Africa was recently named Africa’s
most innovative country and Japan takes
the lead in Asia, particularly in technology
terms, founder and CEO, Dr Precious Moloi-
Motsepe, noted. Africa and Asia are both
celebrated for promoting local authenticity
while achieving covetable global style. This
could lead to inspiring fashion and business
partnerships.
“AFI Joburg Fashion Week 2018 is a
platform for our best and most adventurous
designers to showcase their work. It is
also an opportunity to collaborate, and to
exchange ideas and knowledge with their
peers, intersecting Africa with Asia,” Dr Moloi-
Motsepe added. “We are particularly excited at
the prospect of different takes on street style,
for example. This is one of the hottest fashion
trends globally and African fashionistas love
tobringtheirownflairintohowtheyweartheir
brands and celebrate Africa’s design heritage,
especially its fabrics. We are sure this will
offer an inspiring new ingredient that will
bring a fresh edge to African fashion, and can
prompt a thrilling Afro-Asian fashion fusion.”
Africa meets Asia in
spectacular fashion fusion
During AFI Joburg Fashion Week, some of the
top designers in the line-up led the industry-
oriented AFI Masterclass, aimed at capacity-
building, skills and knowledge transfer as well
as enabling the development of commercially
sustainable African luxury fashion. Fashion
Week attendees had an opportunity to shop
the ramp at the Designer Boutique and be the
firsttoownthelatestdesignercollections.
“For more than a decade, AFI has
facilitated exposure for African design talents
on world-class platforms, assisting them to
attract and conquer local markets and receive
international exposure by focussing on the
business of fashion,” said Dr Moloi-Motsepe.
In just over a decade, AFI has built a thriving
fashion marketing, retail and development
platform that celebrates the creativity and
craftsmanship of the African continent, shining
a light on African luxury fashion aesthetics, in
all their originality, heritage and style.
africanfashioninternational.com / www.joburg.co.za
LIFESTYLE | AFRICA MEETS ASIA IN SPECTACULAR FASHION FUSION

123
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
AFRICA MEETS ASIA IN SPECTACULAR FASHION FUSION | LIFESTYLE

124
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
LIFESTYLE | FAMOUS OTTER HIKE TURNS 50
T
he famous Otter hiking
trail turned 50 in 2018. It is
located in the Tsitsikamma
National Park in the Garden
Route National Park (GRNP),
situated along the South Coast
of South Africa – one of the most beautiful
stretches of coastline in the world.
The GRNP is a mosaic of landscapes and
seascapes, a haven for birds and animals,
including seabirds, rare and endangered
species. It spans approximately 155 000
hectares of land, including indigenous forests,
lakes, rivers, wetlands and the sea.
The park incorporates 80 km of rocky
coastline with spectacular sea and
landscapes, a remote mountainous region
with secluded valleys covered in mountain
fynbos and temperate high forests with deep
river gorges leading down to the sea.
Scientists have recorded over 465 plant
species in the forests, over 22 species of
amphibians, 24 reptile species, 84 species of
water birds, 305 species of birds and about
43% of South Africa’s 290 mammal species
in the GRNP.
The GRNP has the single largest block of
Afromontane forest in South Africa, including
the Outeniqua and Tsitsikamma sandstone
fynbos areas, mountains, forest and coast in
close proximity and scenic beauty.
According to the International Union
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) (2001)
categories that were used to evaluate the
threat status of the South African mammals
(Friedmann & Daly 2004), the GRNP protects
populations of 28 red data book species. In
the threatened categories, 7,1% of the park’s
mammals are listed as endangered and 14%
as vulnerable.
Undoubtedly the best known and most
popular of the South African hiking trails, the
Otter trail must rank alongside the best trails
in the world. The trail follows the spectacular
Eastern Cape coastline from Storms River
Mouth to Natures Valley in the Tsitsikamma
National Park.
The Tsitsikamma section of the GRNP
protects a wonderland of inter-tidal and
marine life. This is one of the largest single
unit “no take” (including fishing) marine
protected areas in the world, conserving
11% of South Africa’s temperate South
Coast rocky shoreline and providing a
“laboratory”forfisheriesbaselineresearchon
endangeredlinefishspecies.In1964when
itwasproclaimed,itbecamethefirstMarine
National Park to be proclaimed in Africa.
The Tsitsikamma section incorporates
various cultural heritage sites ranging from
Famous Otter
hike turns 50

125
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FAMOUS OTTER HIKE TURNS 50  | LIFESTYLE
Khoisan cultural heritage sites such as
caves, shell middens and rock art to more
recent cultural historic sites such as the
ruinsofsmallfishersettlements,remnants
of the past forestry industries and grave
sites. The park is embarking on a Cultural
Mapping Project with the aim of identifying
and protecting all cultural heritage sites
incorporated within the park. An Oral History
Collection Project is being implemented to
recover and interpret information relating to
cultural heritage. The more recent history of
theforestryandfishingindustriesthatisstill
in the memories of older folk from the region,
is the one thing that strongly connects local
communities with the park and can enhance
park-community relations.
These processes will be developed
and implemented in conjunction with local
community members and the organisations
representing community interests, as well
as relevant academic institutions and
researchers.
The popular Otter trail is a 42,5-km long
hikethattakesfivedaystocomplete,during
which one  walks on sandy beaches and
traverses rocky routes ranging in elevation
from sea level to a height of more than 150
m. The trail was opened in 1968 and is
consideredoneofthefinestmulti-daytrails
in the world. It is named after the shy, mostly
nocturnal, cape clawless otter, which inhabits
the estuaries and streams of the South
African coast.
One has to be between the ages of
12 and 65 to take on the trail, due to the
physical demands expected from hikers. All
hikers from the ages of 65 and above will
be requested to produce a recent doctor’s
certificatethatconfirmstheirfitnesslevelto
undertake the challenging terrain of the Otter
Trail.
Each hut has a braai place with a sturdy
steel grid. Hikers need to provide their own
gas stoves and pots for cooking.
There are two huts and a single toilet at each
overnight stop. Each of the two huts contains
six beds with mattresses – hikers must
provide their own blankets/pillows/sleeping
bags etc.
It is important to be aware of the dates
and the times of the high and low tides prior
to hiking the Otter Trail. This is especially
important when it comes to crossing the
bigger rivers such as the Elandsbos and the
Bloukrans Rivers.
The Otter trail bookings are done directly
through South African National Parks
(http://www.sanparks.org) up to a year in
advance.
www.sanparks.org.za / www.news24.com

Exploring the Wild Flower
Route of the Northern Cape
126
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 17
LIFESTYLE | EXPLORING THE WILD FLOWER ROUTE OF THE NORTHERN CAPE
E
very year in spring,
photographers, artists,
botanists and sightseers
fromaroundtheglobeflock
to the Northern Cape’s
Namaqualand to witness one
of the greatest and most spectacular natural
phenomena in the world – the blossoming of
thearea’swildflowers.
Thousands of the legendary Namaqualand
daisies along with an estimated 3 500 other
floral species create a horizon-to-horizon
carpet of wonder during springtime – not
something you’ll easily experience anywhere
else in the world, especially with South
Africa’s unique biomes.
The Namaqualand Flower Route lies
aboutafivehours’drivenorthofCapeTown,
in a series of drives that focus on the towns
of Garies, Springbok, Kamieskroon and Port
Nolloth, way up the N7. Included in the Wild
Flower Route are the Richtersveld National
Park, Goegap Nature Reserve and Skilpad
Wild Flower Reserve.
There are, however, also wild flowers all
over the Namaqualand, the West Coast
and Olifants River Valley, and towns such
as Citrusdal, Clanwilliam, Lamberts Bay,
Nieuwoudtville and Vredendal.
Thewildflowersinthisareaarenothing
short of amazing. During the rest of the year,
the landscape is mostly a dry and dusty
desert. However, come springtime and the
areaiscompletelytransformedwithflowering
life boasting more colour than seems possible
for one place.
The riot of flowers is a highly volatile
exhibition. Almost 4 000 different species
of plant seeds lie awaiting germination that
depends entirely on what the weather is
doing. Thus, every year between July and
October brings a different formula, and a
differentselectionofflowers.Arequisitestop
isatthelocaltouristinformationbureautofind
outwheretheyear’sbestflowerdisplaysare.
Thewidevarietyofwildflowersislargely
due to the varied topography – fertile valleys
contrast with high mountains, the semi-desert
plains of the north contrast with the unique
Sandveld region near the coast with its wetter
vlei areas.
Certain species are found nowhere else in
the world such as the yellow leucospermum
reflexum,thesnowprotea(protea cryophilla),
bluelachanaeafilamentosa,yellowsparaxis,
pink cyanella alba and the Clanwilliam cedar
(widdringtonia cedarbergensis).
 It is hardly surprising that the spectacle is
such a drawcard to the Namaqualand, where
you will need at least two to three days to take
in the torrent of colour and the extent of the
floraldisplay,ifthedesertisexperiencinga
good year.
 And the flowers do not have to be
approached by car alone. There are hiking
and cycling routes that allow close scrutiny
oftheflowerroute’sindigenousflora,suchas
those in the Goegap Nature Reserve that also
provide picnic spots and overnight facilities.
www.bookmundi.com / www.sa-venues.com / https://www.cedarberg-
travel.com

Snow proteaPink cyanella alba
Leucospermum reflexum varluteum
127
Issue 17 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
EXPLORING THE WILD FLOWER ROUTE OF THE NORTHERN CAPE | LIFESTYLE

OR Tambo Building in Pretoria, the Head
OfficeoftheDepartmentofInternational
Relations and Cooperation.