seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue18_revised.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue18_revised.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue18_revised.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 18
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
“Through the irrefutable power of the ballot on 8
May, South Africans declared the dawn of a new
era. They have chosen hope over hopelessness;
they have opted for unity over conflict and
divisions.
“Today, we declare that our progress as
South Africa depends on – and cannot be
separated from – the onward march of our
beloved continent Africa.
“Africa is poised once again to rise, to assume
its place among the free and equal nations of
the world. We must use that innovative talent
that originated in Africa to embrace and use the
Fourth Industrial Revolution to develop Africa
and create jobs for the youth and empower the
women of our continent.
“Africa is poised to realise the vision of Pixley
ka Isaka Seme more than a century ago, when
he said: The brighter day is rising upon Africa.
“It is to this brighter day that we now turn our
eyes, to a vista rich with the hues of hope and
promise. It is you, the people of South Africa, who
have spoken.”
–  President Cyril Ramaphosa, during his
inauguration as the Sixth Democratically Elected
President of the Republic of South Africa,
25 May 2019, Africa Day
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger - burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Advertising
Nthabiseng Makuwa - MakuwaN@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0388
Distribution
Olwethu Koli  – kolio@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0006
Photographers
Cover: Jacoline Schoonees.
Jacoline Schoonees, Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO), Yandisa Monakali
(DIRCO), Katlholo Maifadi (DIRCO), Yolande Snyman (DIRCO), GCIS Photography, SA Tourism, Phillip Klausner
(unsplash), Hanne Neijland (unsplash), Julie Macey (unsplash), Kevin Benkenstein (unsplash), Tiaan van Zyl
(unsplash), Sune de Bruyn (unsplash), UN Photo, Nick Brooks (Flicker), HD/NST Anders Malmberg, UNHCR/A.
Gumulira, Rhino Africa blog, Magnettheatre.co.za, Mediclinic SA (Twitter), Good News Daily, Jarno Schurgers
(Red Bull Content Pool) and Lion Sands (DOOKPHOTO)
Acknowledgements
President Cyril Ramaphosa; Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, United Nations Under-Secretary-General and Executive
Director of UN Women; Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, former Minister of Science and Technology; Alvin Botes,
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Luwellyn Landers, former Deputy Minister of
International Relations and Cooperation;  Kgabo Mahoai, Director-General, DIRCO; Phumla Williams, Acting
CEO, Government Communication and Information System; Amb Anil Sooklal, Deputy Director-General: Asia
and the Middle East, DIRCO, Dr Thokozani Simelani, Leader for Science and Technology at the Africa Institute
for South Africa within the Human Sciences Research Council and Jaimal Anand, Assistant Director: Asia
and the Middle East, DIRCO; Kundapur Vaman Kamath, President of the New Development Bank; Olivier de
Frouville, Professeur de droit public (Paris-Assas), Institut Universitaire de France; John J Stremlau, Visiting
Professor of International Relations, University of the Witwatersrand; Pier Paolo Frassinelli, Associate Professor,
Communication Studies, University of Johannesburg; Frank Mattheis, Senior Researcher in Global Studies,
University of Pretoria; Henning Melber, Extraordinary Professor, Department of Political Sciences, University of
Pretoria; Faith Mabera, Senior Researcher, Institute for Global Dialogue associated with UNISA; Elsabé Brits, www.
groundup.org.za; Professor Teboho Moja, New York University; Wayne Muller, Publications Editor / Research
Fellow (Africa Open Institute for Music, Research and Innovation), Stellenbosch University; and Dirk Badenhorst,
CEO: South African International Ballet Competition, Director: Mzansi Ballet
Advertisers
South African Airways, Standard Bank, Naspers, Cipla, ICBC, Brand South Africa, South African National Space
Agency, World Food Programme and City of Cape Town
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation,
e-mail address and delivery address in the body to Kolio@dirco.gov.za
Back-issue enquiries
kolio@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084
Republic of South Africa

A new era has
dawned in our
country10
68
contents
Diplomacy
In every issue
UBUNTU magazine – issue 18
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6  Letter from the Minister
8 Publisher’s note
10  A new era has dawned in our country
16  President Ramaphosa announces seven priorities to take SA
forward
18  Minister Pandor hosts Diplomatic Corps, appeals for closer
ties in advancing South Africa’s goals
22  Africa is the next frontier of global growth
28 Tourism is the new gold
30  Representing Africa in the World: Setting priorities for South
Africa’s third term on the UN Security Council
36 NDB to increase lending to SA, plans to issue rand bonds
40  Increased relations between SA and GRULAC will better the
lives of our people
42  Africa tells a remarkable story but we dare not rest
44  Belt and Road Initiative – Alternative development path for
Africa
48 South Africa hands over BRICS Council Chairship
50  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights at 70: The
challenges that await the UN
52 Foreign policy priorities South Africa should pursue
54  Why Western Sahara remains one of Africa’s most divisive
political issues
56  It’s a century since an international civil service came into
being. Why it matters
62  The Women Peace and Security Agenda: Building bridges
across the Global North and South
We must be
proud of our
past and
confident about
the future

Data will be the
fuel of the 4IR
86Lifestyle
126
The top Instagram sites
in South Africa
78  Liberation heritage: Billy Modise
80  2019 National Orders reflect SA’s silver jubilee
84  “Think Equal Build Smart, Innovate for Change”
86  Data will be the fuel of the 4IR
90  Karoo project will unlock universe’s mysteries
92   Africa should be building private-public partnerships in education
94  Iconic Map of Africa opened at the southernmost tip of Africa
96  SA’s Stroop triumphs at International Wildlife Film Festival
98  How South Africans forged a path to making opera truly African
102 #a good story to tell
110  Flying the SA flag
LIFESTYLE
Feature
122   Africa’s Top Film Festival Celebrates 50 Years: What’s to celebrate,
and learn
124  South Africa’s most beautiful object
126  The top Instagram sites in South Africa
128  South Africa makes ballet history on the Bolshoi Stage in Moscow
66 South Africans appointed UNHCR goodwill ambassadors
68 We must be proud of our past and confident about the future

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  6
T
his letter is the first of many
that I am planning to pen down
in my new role as the Minister
of International Relations and
Cooperation. President Cyril
Ramaphosa has reposed a great
deal of trust in myself, in the Deputy Ministers,
the Director-General, our top management,
ambassadors and all staff in the department
with the hope that our work will contribute to
the ideal of a better South Africa, in a better
and safer Africa, in a better world.
Let me begin by just saying a little bit about
what I believe drives us as South Africans. We
are driven to some degree by our history, by
who we are, and what we seek to become.
As we celebrate our 25th year of democracy,
it is important to reflect that as we waged the
struggle for freedom, our leaders placed great
reliance on the international dimension of the
struggle.
They were the influencers that persuaded
the international community that our struggle
for freedom was one that the whole world
should support. That we were a people who
were experiencing a form of oppression that
had to concern all humanity. And so, as part
of the liberation movement, we were able
to persuade almost the entire world to join
in. Everywhere were we laid our foot, we
were able to persuade that an international
dimension was key, strategic and imperative
for us to win our place in history.
So, we must always remember that our history,
the nature of the struggle we put in motion, is
extremely important and is part of the armour
that we bring into our role as the Department
of International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO). It is part of what drives us.
We are also driven by our aspirations as a
people, a government and a department. Our
aspirations for the world to be a better place.
Our aspiration that Africa can develop. Our
aspiration that the fact that we are free, and
the fact that so many were with us, side by
side, as we walked to that freedom, means we
must walk with others. So, our aspirations are
always that we will have as a bastion, solidarity
and interest in the condition of others.

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  7
Letter from the Minister
But our aspiration is not just for ourselves
as South Africans. It is for those who are
oppressed in Myanmar, it is for those who
suffer in Palestine. It is for those who have
no democracy, in a range of conditions in
the world. Our aspiration is that we make the
African Diaspora’s cooperation a reality. That
we will, as people who come from a community
of the oppressed, use our numbers, our
strength and our character to rise.
We have national ambitions as well. We
want to see the condition of the people of South
Africa change. And again, our department
is strategically important to achieving that
change. To securing again, international
solidarity in support of changing the condition
of the people of South Africa, and of the people
of the continent of Africa.
Nothing we do, is for ourselves. So, when
we travel, we are not just there for a visit. We
are there to secure support for the aspiration.
And we must always remember that. If our
international work is not leading to ways
of remediating our challenges, we are not
succeeding in our work. If we are not securing
more trade, more opportunities for human
resource development for our young people,
more infrastructure for our country and for
countries on the continent and if our region
is not thriving, our work is just international
relations, it is not cooperation.
So, we have ambitions for our national
aspirations. We have ambitions for our
continent. We have a role to play in making
the African Union (AU) the best regional
organisation in the world. It is our ambition,
it’s our aspiration. We must seek, in harmony
with all the countries on the continent, to make
this a reality. We cannot have a mediocre AU,
we must have a quality AU, able to act on its
mandate, able to execute our aspiration, our
ambition.
We can’t allow a unipolar world to emerge.
Multilateralism got us where we are. A
cooperating world got us where we are. And
we must be advocates for alone we cannot
succeed, together we make a difference. The
emerging attempt to create the notion that
there can be some nation that is dominant
in all our international ideas must be one we
reject with contempt and strength. Because
institutions and nations must work together for
the betterment of all.
We are confronted by a range of very
challenging tasks that must be addressed
by South Africa. We’ve got to ensure that we
find ways of responding to inequality, which
confronts so many of our people – women,
young people and particular communities. We
have to find responses to their concerns. We
must address unemployment in our country.
Our people cannot live in harmony if they have
no livelihood, if they have no hope, if they have
no opportunity. We must address poverty. All of
this can only be done if we achieve growth in
our economy.
We cannot for more than the number of
decades we’ve had our freedom so far, keep
referring to inequality and unemployment,
without us saying we have reduced it by
such a proportion. We know that that change,
that reduction, came from our international
work. We must be results-orientated. And our
country’s problems are the issues we must
address.
We must understand that we exist for
a purpose. We are a strategic department,
playing an extremely important role. We have
the possibility of effecting fundamental change
in many international situations. We also
have the opportunity to use the spaces we
occupy to ensure fundamental change in the
condition of our people using our expertise in
the international domain.
I hope that from time to time, we will see our
stakeholders at DIRCO seminars where we
can discuss, share ideas and refine our craft
through exchange.
I like to work because I believe our country
needs us to work. Our people need us to
perform. It is possible for us to change our
condition. It is possible for all of us to make a
contribution. But to do it, we must work hard,
diligently and with excellence in mind.
A better South Africa, in a better and safer
Africa, in a better world.
Naledi Pandor
Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  8
Publisher’s Note | Let’s talk foreign policy...
S
outh Africa has recorded
major strides across the
political, economic and
social dimensions of its
international relations.
Since the advent of
democracy in 1994, South Africa has had to
contend with domestic, regional as well as
global expectations to be seen to be playing a
key role in championing values of human rights,
democracy, reconciliation and the eradication
of poverty and underdevelopment.
Even the harshest critics cannot deny that
South Africa has acquitted herself well, often
under trying circumstances, to meet these
expectations. Our country’s leadership footprint
is visible in the region, the continent and
globally.
It is worth noting that from the very onset,
post-apartheid South Africa had placed Africa
at the centre of the country’s foreign policy.
South Africa continues to support continental
initiatives and efforts whose quest is to forge
continental integration.
The country has also been unrelenting
in relation to fostering peace as well as post-
confl  ict reconstruction and development in
countries like the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Burundi and South Sudan. In essence,
whether involved within the United Nations
(UN) and/or its specialised agencies or, in
bodies like the G20, G77, IBSA or BRICS,
South Africa steadfastly advances the African
Agenda.
Likewise, the current administration
under President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa
continues to display an unwavering
commitment to the advancement of the African
Agenda. President Ramaphosa underscored
the centrality of Africa to the country’s foreign
relations trajectory when he addressed the
South African Heads of Mission Conference in
Tshwane on 23 October 2018. In this regard,
the President stressed:
“We wholly identify with the aspirations of
Agenda 2063 of the African Union (AU) and
its vision of ‘an integrated, prosperous and
peaceful Africa, driven by its own citizens
and representing a dynamic force in the
international arena’. South Africa and its
fortunes are inextricably linked to those of the
continent. When Africa falters, South Africa
falters. And when Africa prospers, South Africa
prospers.”
Accordingly, South Africa is fully behind the
African Agenda 2063 and it’s Action Plan, the
recent signing of the Continental Free Trade
Agreement in Kigali, Rwanda, and many other
efforts that constitute seminal developments
in the journey towards an integrated, united,
peaceful and prosperous continent.
In the words of the Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor,
from a recent interview with Ubuntu Radio:
“We would like to see all 54 African
countries working for development, focussed
on our people’s condition and ensuring we end
war and insecurity.”
Involvement in the UN and its specialised
agencies has afforded South Africa an
opportunity as well as a platform to actualise
its professed commitment to multilateralism
and a rules-based international order. The
country has been forthright in opposing any
steps which, in its view, pose a threat to the
rules-based system.
In January 2019, South Africa started serving
its third term as a non-permanent member
of the UN Security Council (SC). The UNSC
is the premier global body for maintaining
international peace and security. And South
Africa is sitting at that table.
South Africa has already signed the Treaty
on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, thereby
cementing the country’s continued commitment
towards the achievement of a world free from
the existential threat posed by nuclear weapons
and ensuring that nuclear energy is used for
peaceful purposes only. This is particularly
important in respect of the noticeable trend
where nuclear arsenals are being modernised
in nuclear-weapon states, a process that has
ushered in the revision of military doctrines and
nuclear postures.
The country also has been responsive and
vocal with regard to the current global challenge
that pertains to often contentious issues
like human rights, food security, sustainable
development as well as climate change. As a
result of successful deliberations between the
World Food Programme and the Government
of the Republic of South Africa, an agreement
was reached for South Africa to host one of the
largest UN Humanitarian Response Depots.
Over and above the foregoing, the fact that at
the 2019 AU Summit, South Africa was elected
to chair the AU in 2020 is not just a feather in
the country’s cap but is, more crucially, a huge
responsibility in that it places the country at the
coalface of overseeing the implementation of
the continent’s developmental agenda during
its tenure. The AU has set 2020 as the target
year for silencing the guns in Africa.
South Africa’s foreign policy mandate has
been characterised by the umbilical cord that
not only drove and energised the struggle
against apartheid but has continued to serve
as a transcending link from former President
Nelson Mandela’s fi  rst administration to all
successive post-apartheid administrations
to date. The overarching propeller is still the
creation of a better South Africa, a better and
safer Africa and a better world for all.
@Clayson Monyela
“We wholly identify with the aspirations of Agenda 2063 of the African Union and its
vision of ‘an integrated, prosperous and peaceful Africa, driven by its own citizens
and representing a dynamic force in the international arena’. South Africa and its
fortunes are inextricably linked to those of the continent. When Africa falters, South
Africa falters. And when Africa prospers, South Africa prospers.”
– President Cyril Ramaphosa, Heads of Mission Conference, October 2018

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  9
Issue 18
South Africa’s
 Public Diplomacy in action
 UBUNTU
 9

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  10
“A new era has
dawned
in our country”
O
n Africa Day, 25 May
2019, President-elect Cyril
Ramaphosa was inaugurated
as South Africa’s President
during the sixth Presidential
Inauguration under the theme “Together
Celebrating Democracy: Renewal and Growth
for a Better South Africa” at Loftus Versfeld in
Pretoria.
“I, Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, swear that
I will be faithful to the Republic of South Africa,
and will obey, observe, uphold and maintain
the Constitution and all law of the Republic.
And I solemnly and sincerely promise that I
will always promote all that will advance the
Republic and oppose all that may harm it;
protect and promote the rights of all South
Africans,” he said.
President Ramaphosa, 66, also vowed to
discharge all his duties with all his strength and
talent to the best of his abilities and be true
to the dictates of his conscience, as he took
the oath administered by Constitutional Court
Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng.
The crowd, gathered at the stadium,
errupted in loud cheer as the President said:
“So help me God!”
Representatives from the continent,
regional economic blocs, former liberation
movements, fraternal countries, the African
Union, United Nations, members of the
Diplomatic Corps and eminent persons, as
well as over 30 000 members of the public
witnessed the inauguration.
Former presidents Thabo Mbeki, Kgalema
Motlanthe and FW de Klerk were seated
in the VIP area on stage, and the heads of
state from the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Tanzania, Zimbabwe, South Sudan, Uganda,
Lesotho and eSwatini graced the ceremony,
which coincided with the continental Africa Day
celebrations.
Before taking the oath, President
Ramaphosa was honoured by a military
salute from the South African National
Defence Force who ushered the President to
the sound of the National Anthem, a 21-gun
salute and Air Force display.
In his inaugural address, President
Ramaphosa said that through the irrefutable
power of the ballot on 8 May, South Africans
declared the dawn of a new era.
“They have chosen hope over hopelessness,
they have opted for unity over conflict and
divisions.
“As we give effect to their mandate, we
draw comfort from the knowledge that that
which unites us is far, far more powerful and
enduring than that which divides us.
“Despite our differences, despite a past of
conflict and division and bitterness, despite
It was symbolic that the inauguration took place on Africa Day, as it affirmed government’s
commitment to advancing the African Agenda and to strengthening ties between South
Africa and its neighbours.

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  11
the fierce political contestation among 48
political parties in recent months, we share
the same hopes and fears, the same anxieties
and aspirations.
“We all want our children to have lives that
are better than our own, to have work that is
dignified and rewarding.
“We are bound together by our
determination that never again shall the
adversities of our past be visited on the
people of this land.
“This is a defining moment for our young
nation.
“Today is the choice of history.
“It is a time for us to make the future we
yearn for.
“It is through our actions now that we will
determine our destiny.”
In a departure from the tradition of holding
the inauguration at the Union Buildings, the
inauguration took place at Loftus Versfeld
Stadium. Hosting the inauguration in a
stadium, the largest in the City of Tshwane,
allowed for greater public participation in this
important national event.
It was symbolic that the inauguration took
place on Africa Day, as it affirmed government’s
commitment to advancing the African Agenda
and to strengthening ties between South Africa
and its neighbours.
As African National Congress (ANC)
leader, Mr Ramaphosa was elected as the
President of the sixth democratic Parliament
on Wednesday, 22 May 2019. He was the only
candidate nominated for presidency.
The ruling ANC claimed victory in the 2019
elections, with 57.50% of the total national votes
cast in the hotly contested polls. Over 17 million
of the 26 779 025 registered South Africans took
to the polls on Wednesday, 8 May 2019.
A record 48 political parties contested the
elections, making it the most contested polls
since the dawn of democracy.
The Democratic Alliance remained the
official opposition party, as it gained 20.77% of
the votes. In 2014, the party received 22.23%
of the total votes cast in the national election.
The Economic Freedom Fighters cemented
their place in the leadership ranks by gaining
10.79% of the votes cast nationally. This was
an increase for the five-year-old party, which
managed to get 6.35% in the 2014 elections.
The top three were followed by the Inkatha
Freedom Party at number four, which received
3.38%; the Freedom Front Plus with 2.38%;
the African Christian Democratic Party with
0.84%; and the United Democratic Movement
with 0.45%.
The top 10 was completed by newcomers
African Transformation Movement with 0.44%
of the votes, and GOOD with 0.40%, followed
by the National Freedom Party, with 0.35% of
the votes.
A new Cabinet
On 29 May 2019, President Cyril Ramaphosa
announced the members of the National
Executive who would give effect to the mandate
provided by South Africans during the elections
to “accelerate inclusive economic growth, act
with greater urgency to tackle poverty, improve
government services, fight corruption and end
state capture”.
Speaking during the announcement at
the Union Buildings in Pretoria, President
Ramaphosa said that a capable, efficient and
ethical government was needed to give effect
to this mandate. The President also indicated
that it was critical that the structure and size
of the state were optimally suited to meet the
needs of the people and ensured the most
efficient allocation of public resources.
“In undertaking this review, we have
been guided by the need to build a modern
developmental state that has the means to
drive economic and social transformation, to
embrace innovation and to direct effort and
resources towards where they will have the
greatest impact.
“All South Africans are acutely aware of
the great economic difficulties our country
has been experiencing and the constraints
this has placed on public finances.
“It is therefore imperative that in all areas
and spheres of government, we place priority
on revitalising our economy while exercising
the greatest care in the use of public funds.”

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  12
To promote greater coherence, better
coordination and improved efficiency, a
number of portfolios were combined, reducing
the number of ministers from 36 to 28:
•  Trade and Industry was combined with
Economic Development
•  Higher Education and Training was
combined with Science and Technology
•  Environmental Affairs was combined with
Forestry and Fisheries
•  Agriculture was combined with Land
Reform and Rural Development
•  Mineral Resources was combined with
Energy
•  Human Settlements was combined with
Water and Sanitation
•  Sports and Recreation was combined with
Arts and Culture
•  Communications and Telecommunications
and Postal Services had already been
combined.
The President indicated that some portfolios
received added responsibilities. Infrastructure
was added to the Public Works portfolio and
employment to the Labour portfolio.
“If we are to make effective progress in
building the South Africa that we all want, it
is important that we deploy into positions  of
responsibility people who are committed,
capable and hard-working, and who have
integrity.
“In appointing a new National Executive,
I have taken a number of considerations into
account, including experience, continuity,
competence, generational mix and
demographic and regional diversity.
“The people who I am appointing today
must realise that the expectations of the South
African people have never been greater and
that they will shoulder a great responsibility.
“Their performance – individually and
collectively – will be closely monitored against
specific outcomes. Where implementation is
unsatisfactory, action will be taken.”
The appointments to the National Executive
are:
• Deputy President: David Mabuza.
•  The Minister of Agriculture, Land Reform
and Rural Development is Thoko Didiza.
The deputy ministers are Sdumo Dlamini
and Mcebisi Skwatsha.
•  The Minister of Basic Education is Angie
Motshekga. The Deputy Minister is
 Dr Reginah Mhaule.
•  The Minister of Communications is Stella
Ndabeni-Abrahams. The Deputy Minister
is Pinky Kekana.
•  The Minister of Cooperative Governance
and Traditional Affairs is Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini Zuma. The deputy ministers are
Parks Tau and Obed Bapela.
•  The Minister of Defence and Military
Veterans is Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula.
The Deputy Minister is Thabang Makwetla.
•  The Minister of Environment, Forestry and
Fisheries is Barbara Creecy. The Deputy
Minister is Maggie Sotyu.
•  The Minister of Employment and Labour
is Thulas Nxesi. The Deputy Minister is
Boitumelo Moloi.
•  The Minister of Finance is Tito Mboweni.
The Deputy Minister is Dr David Masondo.
•  The Minister of Health is Dr Zwelini Mkhize.
The Deputy Minister is Dr Joe Phaahla.
•  The Minister of Higher Education, Science
and Technology is Dr Blade Nzimande.
The Deputy Minister is Buti Manamela.
•  The Minister of Home Affairs is Dr Aaron
Motsoaledi. The Deputy Minister is Njabulo
Nzuza.
•  The Minister of Human Settlements, Water
and Sanitation is Lindiwe Sisulu. The
deputy ministers are Pam Tshwete and
David Mahlobo.
•  The Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation is Dr Naledi Pandor. The
“In appointing a new National Executive, I have taken a number of considerations
into account, including experience, continuity, competence, generational mix and
demographic and regional diversity.”
INAUGURATION

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  13
INAUGURATION
deputy ministers are Alvin
Botes and Candith Mashego-
Dlamini.
•  The Minister of Justice and
Correctional Services is
Ronald Lamola. The deputy
ministers are John Jeffery and
Inkosi Phathekile Holomisa.
•  The Minister of Mineral
Resources and Energy
is Gwede Mantashe. The
Deputy Minister is Bavelile
Hlongwa.
•  The Minister of Police is
General Bheki Cele. The
Deputy Minister is Cassel
Mathale.
•  The Minister in The
Presidency is Jackson Mthembu. The
Deputy Minister in The Presidency is
Thembi Siweya.
•  The Minister in The Presidency for Women,
Youth and Persons with Disabilities is
Maite Nkoana-Mashabane. The Deputy
Minister is Prof. Hlengiwe Mkhize.
•  The Minister of Public Enterprises is Pravin
Gordhan. The Deputy Minister is Phumulo
Masualle.
•  The Minister of Public Service and
Administration is Senzo Mchunu. The
Deputy Minister is Sindy Chikunga.
•  The Minister of Public Works and
Infrastructure is Patricia De Lille. The
Deputy Minister is Noxolo Kiviet.
•  The Minister of Small Business
Development is Khumbudzo Ntshavheni.
The Deputy Minister is Rosemary Capa.
•  The Minister of Social Development is
Lindiwe Zulu. The Deputy Minister is
Henrietta Bogopane-Zulu.
•  The Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture
is Nathi Mthethwa. The Deputy Minister is
Nocawe Mafu.
•  The Minister of State Security is Ayanda
Dlodlo. The Deputy Minister is Zizi Kodwa.
•  The Minister of Tourism is Nkhensani
Kubayi-Ngubane. The Deputy Minister is
Fish Mahlalela.
•  The Minister of Trade and Industry is
Ebrahim Patel. The deputy ministers are
Fikile Majola and Nomalungelo Gina.
•  The Minister of Transport is Fikile Mbalula.
The Deputy Minister is Dikeledi Magadzi.
The President said that these men and women
were drawn from all corners of the country. It
was also for the first time in the history of the
country that half of all ministers were women. A
significant number of young people were also
included.
“The people who I
am appointing today
must realise that the
expectations of the South
African people have
never been greater and
that they will shoulder a
great responsibility.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  14
The Hector Pieterson Memorial and Museum, situated in Orlando West, Soweto, commemorates the role of the country’s students in the struggle
against apartheid and in particular the role played by schoolchildren who participated in the Soweto protests of 1976, many of whom were shot by
the apartheid police while protesting against the sub-standard of education in black schools in South Africa. Hector Pieterson, aged 12, was one
of the first fatalities.

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
15

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  16
President Ramaphosa
announces seven priorities to
take SA forward
PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA ANNOUNCES SEVEN PRIORITIES TO TAKE SA FORWARD
“We set these goals so that the decisions we take now are bolder and we act with greater
urgency.”

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  17
P
resident Cyril Ramaphosa has
announced seven priorities that
will fast-track South Africa’s path
to prosperity.
Delivering his third State of
the Nation Address in Parliament on Thursday
evening, 20 June 2019,  the President said the
time for idle talk was now over – “everything
comes down to implementation if the country is
to realise the vision of the National Development
Plan (NDP)”.
Announcing the seven bold priorities, he
said the focus would be on:
• economic transformation and job creation
• education, skills and health
•  consolidating the social wage through
reliable and quality basic services
•  spatial integration, human settlements and
local government
• social cohesion and safe communities
• a capable, ethical and developmental state
• a better Africa and world.
The President said all the country’s programmes
and policies across all departments and
agencies would be directed in pursuit of these
overarching tasks.
“At the same time, we must restore the
NDP to its place at the centre of our national
effort, to make it alive, to make it part of the
lived experience of the South African people,”
he said.
The South Africa we want
The President said as the country entered
the next 25 years of democracy, there was a
need to proclaim a bold and ambitious goal –
a unifying purpose – to which everyone should
dedicate their resources and energies.
“As we enter the last decade of Vision 2030,
let us even more clearly define the South Africa
we want and agree on the concrete actions we
need to achieve them.
“To ensure that our efforts are directed, I
am suggesting that within the priorities of this
administration, we agree on five fundamental
goals for the next decade,” he said.
The President said some of the goals,
aimed at tackling poverty, inequality and
unemployment, the pillars of the NDP, would
mean that:
• no person in South Africa would go hungry
•  the economy would grow at a much faster
rate than the population
•  two million more young people would be in
employment
•  schools would have better educational
outcomes and every 10-year-old would be
able to read for meaning
• violent crime would be halved.
“Let us make these commitments now – to
ourselves and to each other – knowing that
they will stretch our resources and capabilities,
but understanding that if we achieve these five
goals, we will have fundamentally transformed
our society.
“We set these ambitious goals not despite
the severe difficulties of the present, but
because of them.
“We set these goals so that the decisions
we take now are bolder and we act with greater
urgency,” he said.
PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA ANNOUNCES SEVEN PRIORITIES TO TAKE SA FORWARD

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  18
Minister Pandor hosts
Diplomatic Corps, appeals for
closer ties in advancing South
Africa’s goals
“The assignment of serving as the President’s Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation is both a privilege and a daunting challenge. I hope to respond successfully
to these with your esteemed help and support.

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  19
T
he Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor,
on Saturday, 22 June 2019, hosted
a prestigious breakfast reception
for the many ambassadors and
high commissioners accredited to Pretoria –
her first interaction with the Diplomatic Corps
following her appointment to the critical ministry
by President Cyril Ramaphosa after the 8 May
general elections.
“I wish to begin by thanking you all for
accepting our invitation and attending this
breakfast. I sincerely look forward to working
closely with all of you and to continue
strengthening the strong bonds of friendship
built by my predecessor, Minister Sisulu, and
her team.
“The assignment of serving as the
President’s Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation is both a privilege and
a daunting challenge. I hope to respond
successfully to these with your esteemed help
and support.
“I come into this office at a time when seismic
changes continue to face world leaders – all
of us have to develop effective responses to
the dynamic changes that straddle domestic,
regional and global domains.
“I know that I can rely on all of you to
work closely with my department to advance
the international relations goals of South
Africa, the Southern African Development
Community and our entire continent. After all,
we enjoy freedom today due in large measure
to the support many of you gave us during
our hard-fought struggle for freedom. The
collaboration we secured then, the single-
minded determination aimed at defeating
apartheid is required even more as we
confront the issues of ensuring increased
African prosperity, the education and skilling
of our youth population, the entrenching of
quality for women, the creation of sustainable
inclusive democracies and respect for
diversity and inclusion globally.
“Our President Ramaphosa set out this
government’s key priorities last night – it is my
task to ensure our work as the Department
of International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) contributes to these and to
especially give attention to our Agenda 2063
for the continent of Africa.
“As DIRCO, we are convinced that our
focus must consistently be our priorities:
action to advance the development of the
African continent, support for advancing
human rights, promotion of respectful
cooperative relations between nations, and
active participation in achieving peaceful
resolution of conflicts and of course support
for measures to achieve increased robust and
inclusive economic development.
“These are tough aspirations in a world that
seems determined to be fractured and tense.
I am certain that all the excellencies gathered
here share the noble ambitions of DIRCO
and while I know we may not succeed in all
of them, I am truly honoured that I have been
charged to work closely with you to really try
to achieve these ideals and I sincerely look
forward to working with you to get your support
in achieving as many of them as possible.”
South Africa hosts the second-largest
number of diplomatic missions after the
United States. The event was attended by
hundreds of diplomats, including Dean of the
Diplomatic Corps, Ambassador Bene M’Poko
of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Minister
Pandor was accompanied by Deputy Ministers
Candith Mashego-Dlamini and Alvin Botes.
MINISTER HOSTS DIPLOMATIC CORPS
“As DIRCO, we are
convinced that our focus
must consistently be our
priorities: action to advance
the development of the
African continent, support
for advancing human rights,
promotion of respectful
cooperative relations
between nations, and active
participation in achieving
peaceful resolution of conflicts
and of course support
for measures to achieve
increased robust and inclusive
economic development.”

DipLoMacy |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  20

| DipLoMacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  21

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  22
S
outh Africa hosted the Young
Presidents’ Organisation (YPO)
Global Leadership Conference
at the International Convention
Centre in Cape Town in
March 2019. This important gathering of
accomplished business leaders from across
the globe represented a substantial portion
of the world economy. Delegates from 95
countries attended the event.
The YPO held its conference at a time when
the investment environment remained challenging
and uncertain.
On the global scale, it is said that the key
risk is that global gross domestic product
(GDP) growth has peaked, with G7/Eurozone/
Chinese growth expected to dip in 2020.
As global growth appears to be weakening;
trade tensions continue between the United
States and China; political risk is increasing in
both developed and emerging markets; debt
levels remain elevated across government,
corporate and household sectors; and
monetary conditions are tightening in the short
term as central banks shift to more hawkish
policies.
What about Africa?
The African Development Bank (AfDB) says
that in the medium term, growth is projected
to accelerate to 4% in 2019 and 4.1% in 2020.
And though lower than China’s and India’s
growth, Africa’s growth is projected to be higher
than that of other emerging and developing
countries.
The World Bank’s report on the prospects
of growth in Africa says that these numbers
belie the enormous diversity that is to be found
on the African continent and that a number
of countries are showing impressive growth
prospects.
Ethiopia is on track to have nearly the
highest GDP growth rate in the world, and
several smaller economies like Tanzania,
Kenya, Rwanda and Ghana are growing at
rates over 6%, a number on par or higher than
China’s expected growth.
These countries are Africa’s torchbearers
for economic growth as they are also
successfully attracting global capital through
progressive policies aimed at diversifying their
economies and growing the middle class.
South Africa is emerging from a difficult
period not only of poor economic performance
but also of diminishing public trust in state
institutions and low investor confidence.
We have been forthright in acknowledging
the effects of corruption and what we describe
as “state capture” of our economy, our
institutions and our people.
We have taken decisive steps to end state
capture, rebuild our law-enforcement agencies,
end corruption and mismanagement at state-
owned enterprises and to ensure greater policy
coherence.
As we work to correct the mistakes and
missteps of the past period, we are focussed
on lifting economic growth and creating jobs.
We have embarked on an ambitious
investment drive, with a target of US$100 billion
of new investment over five years.
As a result of these efforts, South Africa is
firmly on a path of growth and renewal.
We draw strength and encouragement
from our partners within the global business
community who are keen to see South Africa
succeed. We are heartened by the many
companies – both local and international –
who see South Africa as a country alive with
opportunity.
We are well aware of the deep social and
economic challenges our country faces –
including widespread poverty, unemployment
and severe inequality. Yet, we are not daunted
by these challenges, nor complacent about
the difficult work that needs to be done to
overcome them.
As we build a new future for the people
of our country, we look to our past for both
perspective and inspiration. South Africa is a
diverse and beautiful country, with a resilient
people and a proud history of struggle against
injustice.
Even in the darkest days of apartheid, our
people never gave up.
In part, they never gave up because they
knew they had the support of many people
from our continent and the world who abhorred
the racist policies of apartheid.
They merely fought harder, with greater
determination, to achieve a durable constitutional
democracy.
Just as they defeated an iniquitous system
of racial oppression 25 years ago, the people
of South Africa are today acting in concert to
address the social and economy legacy of that
system.
They are working together to build an
inclusive economy that benefits all South
Africans, regardless of the circumstances of
their birth.
We invited the young global CEOs
participating in the conference to become our
Africa is the next
frontier of global growth
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
We draw strength and encouragement from our partners within the global
business community who are keen to see South Africa succeed. We are
heartened by the many companies – both local and international – who see
South Africa as a country alive with opportunity.
AFRICA IS THE NEXT FRONTIER OF GLOBAL GROWTH

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  23
partners on this journey of inclusive growth,
which will create employment, reduce inequality
and offer business a meaningful opportunity to
make a positive impact in society.
We invited them to invest in a South Africa
that has world-class infrastructure, hosting the
largest cluster of air and maritime transportation
companies on the African continent.
We have the most advanced information
and communications technology infrastructure
in Africa, with Internet and personal computer
penetration being the highest in the region.
Many companies are attracted by the
relative cost of doing business in South Africa,
underpinned by the availability of skilled labour,
a supportive operating environment and a
highly sophisticated banking system.
We are determined to further improve the
ease of doing business in South Africa and
have set ourselves the target of being within
the top 50 countries ranked in the World
Bank’s Doing Business Report within three
years. South Africa is currently rated 82 out of
190 countries.
Within six years, we are determined to have
caught up with Rwanda. It is wonderful to have
a top performing country, like Rwanda, on our
continent as it affords us an opportunity to
emulate them but also inspires us to catch up.
We realise that this will take an extraordinary
effort by all social partners, from government
departments and agencies through to business
and trade unions.
Yet, extraordinary efforts will be required if
we are to create jobs at a rate that our people
need to lift themselves out of poverty.
One of the most important requirements
for economic activity is the reliability and
affordability of energy.
South Africa has been experiencing
electricity shortages in recent years as our
energy utility, Eskom, has faced severe
financial and operational difficulties. We have
therefore embarked on a series of immediate
measures to stabilise the electricity grid,
ensure that Eskom can meet its financial
obligations and restructure the utility to make
it more efficient, transparent and accountable.
We are further seeking to benchmark it
with other utilities across the world which have
confronted and defeated similar challenges.
Through these efforts, we are certain that we
can ensure security of energy supply both in
the short term and well into the future.
South Africa is working to drive growth
both by expanding our export capacity and
increasing local demand. We have established
10 special economic zones, located in strategic
sites around the country, where companies can
access preferential tax rates, allowances and
incentives. Importantly, companies can benefit
from the proximity of related value chains, and
industrial and logistical infrastructure.
As a support mechanism to potential
investors across the country, government has

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  24
put in place an attractive package of incentives
administered by Invest SA, our one-stop
investment shop. Located in key economic
centres, Invest SA offices assist investors to
seamlessly enter the South African market.
They support an investment team that
includes four presidential investment envoys,
who engage with potential investors both
locally and abroad.
We have compiled an investment book,
which details investment opportunities in South
Africa. There are wide variety of opportunities
in sectors ranging from green energy, recycling
and biofuels to water infrastructure, energy,
mining and minerals beneficiation.
There are also great opportunities for growth
in agriculture and agro-processing, tourism,
shipbuilding, business process outsourcing,
advanced manufacturing, fuel cell production,
aerospace, defence and many others.
South Africa has extensive capabilities
in science and technology, with research
institutions doing pioneering work in a broad
range of disciplines, and has constructed
the world’s largest and most sensitive radio
telescope.
We are working to develop the skills that
our people need to harness the benefits of
the Fourth Industrial Revolution to build a
competitive economy.
Investment is crucial to enable us to access
new technologies and approaches that merge
the physical, digital and biological worlds.
One of the most exciting developments
in recent years was the adoption by African
leaders of the agreement to establish an
African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA).
This will revolutionise economic development
in Africa.
In the past decade, Africa has grown at a
rate of two to three percentage points faster
than the global GDP.
The growth of African economies has
been supported by increasing foreign direct
investment flows, public investment in
infrastructure, higher agricultural production
and a concerted programme of skills
development.
The establishment of the CFTA will create
a massive market for goods and services,
enabling African countries to expand trade and
industrialise.
AfDB experts say that regional integration
is now more pertinent than ever in continuing
the continent’s economic growth.
This is in the context of the expectation that
Africa’s working age population is likely to
double to one billion in the next 24 years,
surpassing both China and India.
This is no doubt a matter of great interest to
the YPO, which has expanded its presence in
Africa in recent years, with over 700 members
in 21 chapters across the continent.
Africa is the next frontier of global growth.
It has vast untapped potential and a huge
appetite for investment.
The YPO Global Leadership Survey,
released in January, showed that an
overwhelming 93% of YPO affiliate CEOs
believed that business must play a far greater
role in making a positive impact on society for
the benefit of all people.
This perspective has led me to think of five
tasks that I believe the YPO family needs to be
preoccupied with.
I believe that business should adopt a
contrarian posture to Milton Friedman’s maxim
– that the business of business is business.
The business of business should not just be
business.
Focus on profits alone should not be the
yardstick.
Instead, we should make stakeholder value
the benchmark of a company’s performance.
This talks to focussing on recognising the
challenges that the people of the world face
and crafting a shared future in which their
challenges are addressed.
The World Economic Forum theme of the
2018 meeting was quite relevant when it said
“Creating A Shared Future in the Fractured
World”.
Today, stakeholders – customers,
shareholders, suppliers, employees,
community leaders, religious leaders, political
leaders, traditional leaders (especially in
traditional societies in places like Africa), in
fact society as a whole – rightfully expect
companies to assume greater responsibility,
for example, by protecting the climate, fighting
for social justice, aiding refugees and training
and educating workers.
The business of business should be to
create value for society. This is a task that
business leaders cannot ignore.
Secondly, because the Fourth Industrial
Revolution runs on knowledge, we need
a concurrent revolution in training and
education.
Both government and business must join
forces to provide workers with the skills and
qualifications they need to participate in the
digital economy, for instance, by being able
to tap the opportunities created by Artificial
Intelligence.
I recently chaired, together with the Prime
Minister of Sweden, the International Labour
Organisation’s Commission on the Future
of Work where a clear task was issued to
employers that they should assist working
people on their journey of lifelong learning so
that they are able to cope with the challenges
that the Fourth Industrial Revolution is going
to impose on the world.
Thirdly, we must encourage innovation to
fuel economic growth on a continuous basis
with new products and services.
Business needs to lead in this regard.
Fourthly, as leaders, we must summon the
courage to address the tough issues and the
tough questions. And there are plenty of them.
How can we secure the future of those
whose jobs will be eliminated by machines?
How do we create new sectors of the
economy? How do we address the challenge
of widespread unemployment?
Fifthly, business must remain engaged
with all the key stakeholders and especially
government.
Relationships between business and
government are often fraught with conflict.
A business must always have the courage
to engage government and collaborate with
government even as it might seem difficult.
Business should, however, not seek to
capture government because that always
leads to disastrous ends. Part of this task
means that business must never be found
wanting when it comes to adherence to
integrity and ethical behaviour.
In other words, business must rid itself of
corrupt practices and be seen to be dealing
with corruption effectively.
What is significant is that this perspective
that encapsulates these five tasks is
embraced by important players in global
business. We all have a responsibility to work
for sustainable and inclusive growth.
Let us all work together to make the world
a better place for all the people who live in
it.
Both government and business must join forces to provide workers with the skills
and qualifications they need to participate in the digital economy, for instance, by
being able to tap the opportunities created by Artificial Intelligence.
AFRICA IS THE NEXT FRONTIER OF GLOBAL GROWTH

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
25

Diplomacy |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
26

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
27

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  28
We have majestic mountains and smiling
hills; pristine beaches; and abundant fauna
and flora, some of which are found here and
nowhere else on Earth.
We have world-class national parks that are
at the forefront of the conservation of rare and
endangered species.
Africa has vast expanses of majestic
scenery, from Erg Chebbi in the ancient Sahara
desert, to the mountain highlands of Virunga,
to the savannah grasslands of the Masai-Mara,
to the place at the southern tip of our continent
where the Indian and Atlantic oceans meet.
A hundred and thirty five world heritage
sites are in Africa, from Aksum in Ethiopia to
the city of Timbuktu in Mali.
Visitors to the many countries on our
continent are able to engage in a range of
sporting, recreational and leisure activities.
We tend to think of tourism as being associated
with pleasure motives such as visiting iconic
sites and getting involved in recreational
activities, but it can also embrace business,
education, health or religion as a basis for
travelling.
Tourism is the new gold
It is a sector that is thriving and that has
tremendous potential for further growth and for
the creation of jobs.
There is growing global consensus
on the need for countries to pursue paths
of sustainable development, to grow and
transform our respective economies while
minimising our impact on nature.
African countries are taking the lead in
sustainable tourism and eco-tourism.
We need to expand tourism in our countries,
contribute to economic growth, increase our
foreign earnings, bring more people into the
Tourism is the new gold
By President Cyril Ramaphosa
28
T
he 2019 Africa Travel Indaba offered
an opportunity for dialogue on the
collective positioning of “Brand
Africa” to attract more tourists and
grow the African tourism market.
The Indaba featured exhibitions from
countries, including Botswana, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, Lesotho, Malawi,
Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe,
Madagascar, Rwanda and Uganda.
As the global citizens that we all are, we are
physically separated by borders, whichever
part of the world we come from. We are,
however, united by our affinity and our love
for this great continent Africa, the cradle of
humankind.
It is Africa’s status as the Mother Continent,
as home to some of the oldest hominid
fossils and some of the world’s most unique
biodiversity, that makes this continent a prime
tourist destination.
In May 2019, South Africa hosted the Africa Travel Indaba in Durban under
the theme, “Africa’s Stories, Your Success”. The indaba, which is hosted in
Durban annually, provides a platform for African countries to showcase and
market themselves as tourist destinations.

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  29
mainstream of our economies and boost
related industries.
Tourism is one of the most international
of industries for it is an industry that tends to
showcase a country’s identity and offering to
the world.
Tourism has an extensive value chain,
stimulating economic activity in manufacturing,
in the services sector and in the creative and
cultural industries.
Most importantly, tourism holds great
promise for the development of small
businesses in our countries.
It is when you stay in small bed and
breakfast establishments or small hotels, that
you get to interact with the locals, listen to their
stories about the area and get advice on the
best, least-known places to go on site-seeing
trips.
The influx of visitors means more people get
employment as tour guides, drivers, caterers
and producers of memorable artefacts, to
name but just a few.
Local people are able to show off the
attractions with pride for their history, their
culture and traditions.
As part of our efforts to revitalise our
economy, South Africa is focussing our
energies on labour-intensive sectors such as
agriculture, the Oceans Economy and tourism.
We have set ourselves a bold target to raise
over US$100 billion in new investment over
five years.
Tourism plays a critical role in that strategy.
In South Africa, the annual growth rate of
tourism is currently exceeding the goals in our
National Tourism Strategy and it is expected to
grow even further.
We are, however, acutely aware that
we face competition from other tourism
destinations around the globe. This is so
because modern tourists are discerning.
They are spoiled for choice when it comes
to where they choose to take themselves and
their families, and spend their money.
We live in the age of AirBnB, CityMapper,
SkyScanner and TripAdvisor.
It is an age where the end-to-end travel
experience has been optimised through
technology – where decisions on where to go
and where to stay, and where not to go and
where not to stay, are made on the basis of
peer review.
This means that we have to marshal all the
means at our disposal to show that we have
what it takes to be that destination and to offer
that experience that tourists want.
To do so, we must address and overcome a
number of challenges:
•  We must reduce the onerous and often
unnecessary bureaucratic red tape that
tourists who want to visit our countries
face. This requires of us to streamline
TOURISM IS THE NEW GOLD
our tourist visa regimes. As South Africa,
we are committed to working towards the
African Union’s goal of visa-free travel and
a single African air transport market. We
are in the process of radically overhauling
our visa dispensation for the rest of the
world and introducing a world class e-visa
system.
•  We must deal with crime and counter
the perception that Africa is an unsafe
tourism destination. This means we have
to devote more resources to tackling acts
of criminality, particularly crimes against
tourists. Initiatives like the Kenya Tourism
Federation Safety and Communication
Centre, the Tourism Police in Uganda and
our own tourism safety monitors in South
Africa are examples of measures that can
be undertaken.
•  We must be vigorous in promoting
domestic tourism and get the citizens of
our countries to travel and see the beauty
of their own countries.
•  As governments, we need to actively
seek out private-sector partners for the
establishment of new tourism products
and offerings. To do this, we must forge
stronger public-private partnerships.
•  Tourism must be seen as each country’s
combined national effort where we must
enhance intergovernmental cooperation
between different departments and
agencies. This will be key to ensuring that
we meet our goals.
•  Modern tourism requires organisational
systems and the provision of a supporting
infrastructure of facilities and personnel
able to run the tourism business. This
means that we should develop and
upgrade our energy generation, clean
water reticulation, roads, bridges, hotels,
hospitals, telecommunications, our game
parks and many other facilities.
•  We need to consciously empower
the youth and women by giving them
pathways to participate effectively in the
tourism industry as owners and managers
of various offerings and businesses.
This industry must be positioned as a
key empowering sector of the economy
whose power we should unleash and use
to change the lives of people in our urban
and rural areas.
•  We need to be united in our aspiration to
build and brand Africa as a continent of
success and a continent that will shine as
a tourist destination for the world and for
our own people.
•  We need to embrace technology in the era
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Artificial
Intelligence, blockchain and the Internet of
Things require that our tourism offerings
must be well aligned with enveloping
technologies. In a few years, a tourist
will land at our airports and have a self-
driven car taking them to pre-programmed
tourist destinations. We might soon have
to design tourism offerings for robots. Let’s
get ready for the brave new world that is
coming.
•  We should be open to international
benchmarks that we should use to drive-
up the standards, competitiveness and the
quality of our domestic tourism industry.
We need to position our respective countries
and our continent at the forefront of progress,
technological advance and innovation in the
tourism sector. We want to double, triple and
quadruple the number of visitors we receive in
our countries every year.
We also want to boost domestic tourism, for
we often lose sight of the imperative of getting
our own citizens to explore what their countries
have to offer.
We share a common goal, to offer a unique,
one-of-a-kind and unforgettable consumer and
business travel experience.
South Africa was proud to host the 2019
Indaba in the year that we mark 25 years
since we attained our freedom.
Our liberation opened our ports of entry –
and more importantly, our hearts and homes
– to visitors and investors from all over the
world.
This indaba, with all that it offered, was a
testimony to the fact that Africa is a continent
of innovation with a strong focus on the future.
We are a continent that is open and
welcoming.
When it comes to tourism and many other
areas of human endeavour, we are a continent
on the move.
Let’s build a brave new world that will attract
the world to come back home to Africa.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  30
S
outh Africa began its two-year
term as an elected member
of the United Nations Security
Council (UNSC) on 1 January
2019.
Our candidature was endorsed by the
African Union (AU). This is a confi  dence boost
that we do not take for granted. What this
means is that we are constantly conscious of
our responsibility towards the continent.
On 8 June 2018, South Africa was elected
by 183 votes to serve in the UNSC Non-
Permanent Seat from 2019 to 2020. The
increased number of votes for South Africa
was a signal of confi  dence by the international
community. This heralded a new dawn in
South Africa’s diplomacy; it provided an
opportunity for a recalibrated engagement with
other nations of the world.
We took the opportunity in September
2018 to use our status as observers to attend
meetings of the council, even though it was not
necessary. We did it to introduce ourselves and
to show that we have a hands-on approach to
our work.
South Africa’s position in the UNSC refl  ects
our founding principles, values and pillars
anchoring our foreign policy, including:
•  our commitment to the promotion and
protection of human rights, including
political, economic, social and
environmental rights
•  promoting democracy as an important
impetus to fi  nding lasting solutions to the
problems of humankind
•  respect for international law that should
guide the conduct of relations between
states
•  commitment to international peace and the
utilisation of internationally agreed non-
violent and non-interference mechanisms
to resolve confl  icts, which is also based
on Article 2 of the UN Charter confi  rming
that: “The Organisation is based on the
principle of sovereign equality of all its
members, and all members shall refrain
in their international relations from the
threat or use of force against the territorial
integrity or political independence of any
state, or in any other manner inconsistent
with the purpose of the United Nations”
•  commitment to pursue economic
development through regional and
international economic cooperation in a
just and interdependent world.
To cement the principles outlined above, South
Africa’s objectives for the two-year term as a
non-permanent member of the UNSC include:
•  Continuing the legacy of Nelson Mandela
– working for a just and peaceful world
and a peaceful Africa, where all can live in
liberty, protected by just laws.
•  Upholding in the strongest terms the
principles of the UN Charter without bias
towards any country.
•  We support the peaceful resolution of
confl  icts, with a focus on prevention, the
utilisation of mediation approaches and
the promotion of inclusive dialogue. As
such, South Africa vociferously advocates
for all parties at the negotiating table
at any negotiating forum to ensure the
participation of women.
•  South Africa operates within a rules-based
multilateral system. This is a key principle
of our engagements and a fundamental
foundation of our tenure. It is important
that the rules are upheld and applied
to all and by all. In this regard, we are
concerned about the increased threat to
multilateralism.
•  Our objectives are also deeply rooted in
the AU’s aspirations as we work towards
the achievement of the AU silencing the
guns on the African continent by 2020 and
Agenda 2063.
This year marks the third time in 12 years that
we have the privilege and opportunity to boldly
serve the people of our country, Africa and the
world on the premier international body tasked
with the maintenance of international peace
and security.
South africa’s fi  rst tenure on the UNSC
South Africa’s fi  rst tenure as an elected member
of the UNSC commenced on 1 January 2007
and ended on 31 December 2008. The
candidacy of our country was endorsed
by the Africa Group and South Africa was
elected unopposed onto the council by the UN
membership, securing the highest number of
recorded votes during the election (186 votes
The increased number of votes for South Africa was a signal of
confidence by the international community. This heralded a new dawn
in South Africa’s diplomacy; it provided an opportunity for a recalibrated
engagement with other nations of the world.
By Kgabo Mahoai
Director-General, Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Representing Africa in the World:
Setting priorities for
South Africa’s third term on the
UN Security Council
REPRESENTING AFRICA IN THE WORLD

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  31
in favour). That should show the confidence
the world has in us.
Our primary objective then was to contribute
to the resolution of conflicts and stabilisation of
post-conflict situations on the African continent.
South Africa also actively engaged in all issues
on the Security Council’s agenda pursuant to
the global mandate associated with council
membership. Despite its lack of experience
and institutional knowledge then, South
Africa registered significant successes in this
first tenure, both in terms of the substantive
issues on the agenda of the Security Council
and in refining its working methods. South
Africa achieved leadership positions and also
influenced a large number of council outcomes
in diverse areas. We created the most active
elected delegations in the Security Council on
virtually all the issues on the council’s agenda.
That energy has been rekindled.
Like other elected members, we were
sometimes powerless to help address the
most serious challenges to the Security
Council’s credibility brought about by the
double standards of its permanent members
in responding, or failing to respond, to crises
in different parts of the world as their own
national interest defined. These experiences,
which are not unique, have driven us to make
the demand that the Security Council is an
institution in urgent need of comprehensive
reform that addresses both council expansion
and representivity and reform of its working
methods.
In 2005, a few months before the UN World
Summit, Africans gathered in Ezulwini, a small
town in eSwatini, and adopted the Common
African Position on the Proposed Reform of the
United Nations – now commonly known as the
Ezulwini Consensus. The Ezulwini Consensus
was endorsed by the AU Summit in Sirte,
Libya, which adopted the Sirte Declaration and
[Draft] Resolution to the General Assembly on
the Reform of the United Nations.
The Ezulwini Consensus is clear on the
“demands” of Africa with regard to Security
Council reform, which calls for a minimum of two
seats in the permanent category to be given to
Africa, and further for Africa to occupy five seats
in the non-permanent category. Regarding the
issue of the veto, the Ezulwini Consensus calls
for its abolishment, but it goes on to say that in
case that it is not possible, Africa demands that
it should receive all privileges enjoyed by other
permanent members.
The Ezulwini Consensus is informed by
the need for Africa to claim its place in the
permanent category of the Security Council as
the principal structure of decision-making in the
area of peace and security. When the Security
Council was constituted in 1945, almost all of
Africa was under the yoke of colonialism and
oppression. Only a few member states from
the continent were part of the San Francisco
Conference namely, South Africa, Egypt and
Liberia.
We have recently steadfastly moved to
resolve this matter. We stand by this and use
every avenue available to put our views and
position across as we strive towards our ideals
as encapsulated in the consensus.
We have learnt a great deal from our past – our
successes and our failures. We have resolved
many problems in this period with the power
given to us in the UNSC. There has been a
nagging negative commentary about our
tenure, especially from the Western states
and their media, and the commentary runs
that in this period South Africa “squandered
its moral authority” in the Security Council and
undermined its human rights ethos. In their
view, South Africa’s positions on Zimbabwe
and Myanmar seemed difficult to reconcile
with the South African Constitution and the
country’s national values.
On Zimbabwe, South Africa believed that
the Western countries, led by the UK wished
to “undermine” regional efforts pursued by the
Southern African Development Community
(SADC) and the AU, including the South
African-led facilitation process. Like in the
case of Myanmar, the European members
with the support of the United States of
America favoured punitive measures against
the Government in Zimbabwe and did not fully
endorse constructive dialogue as a long-term
solution.
The commentary also included our position
on Myanmar, which was one of the most highly
divisive subjects of the UNSC during 2007/08.
South Africa voted against a resolution tabled
by the Western countries in the council
condemning the human rights situation in
the country.  South Africa’s conviction and
argument was that the resolution would have
compromised the “good offices” of the

REPRESENTING AFRICA IN THE WORLD

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  32
Secretary-General who was charged with
dealing with the sensitive matters of peace,
security and human rights in that country.
We also argued that the resolution put out
on Myanmar dealt with issues that would be
best left to the Human Rights Council. South
Africa also argued that the resolution did not
meet the Charter mandate conferred upon the
Security Council, which is to deal with matters
that are a threat to international peace and
security.
The key success during South Africa’s first
term was that the country was particularly
instrumental in helping to revitalise the
debate on the relationship between the UN
and regional organisations. Former President
Thabo Mbeki hosted the Security Council
Summit on the relationship between the
AU and the UN on 16 April 2008, the result
of which was the unanimous adoption of
Resolution 1809 (2007). This resolution
recognised the need to enhance the
predictability, sustainability and flexibility
of financing regional organisations when
they undertake peacekeeping under a UN
mandate. The resolution called upon the
Secretary-General to set up a high-level panel
of UN and AU distinguished persons, to make
specific proposals on how to improve the
effectiveness of cooperation between the AU
and the UN, including in matters of financing
and training.
Other notable achievements by South
Africa included:
•  The co-leadership of the Security Council
Mission to Africa with the UK (breaking
the tradition that only developed countries
could lead council delegations).
•  Drawing attention to the role of
women in peace and security. South
Africa successfully proposed the first-
ever Presidential Statement on the
role of women in the maintenance of
international peace and security to mark
International Women’s Day. South Africa
also actively supported the adoption
of Security Council Resolution 1820
(2008) on Women, Peace and Security,
focussing on sexual violence in situations
of armed conflict.
•  South Africa took the lead on the issue
of addressing the proliferation of small
arms and light weapons and hosted a
thematic debate on the issue during each
of its two presidencies of the UNSC.
South Africa also secured the adoption
of a Presidential Statement on the non-
proliferation of small arms and light
weapons
We are very proud of our achievements and
our positions. It increased our international
standing substantially and we still look back
to the glory of that success. This was South
Africa’s golden age in foreign relations.
Second tenure
South Africa’s second tenure in the UNSC
(2011 to 2012) was building upon its
experience during its previous term, aimed at
contributing to achieving peace and stability
on the African continent and in all the regions
of the world.
South Africa influenced a large number of
the council’s outcomes and actively engaged
in all issues on the Security Council’s agenda
pursuant to the global mandate associated
with its membership. South Africa’s leadership
role made a significant contribution to the work
of the council on African issues, particularly
on Sudan/South Sudan, Sudan (Darfur),
Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) and Mali and its position on the Middle
East and Western Sahara is well recognised.
Arguably the most controversial decision
during South Africa’s second tenure was the
vote in favour of Resolution 1973 (2011). The
vote was taken in the midst of the political
uprisings in the Middle East (commonly
referred to as the “Arab Spring”). The
resolution authorised “all military means” to
protect civilians in Libya and was adopted by
10 countries in favour, none against and five
abstentions. All of the three African countries
serving on the council – South Africa, Nigeria
and Gabon – voted in favour of the resolution.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
(NATO) instead used the resolution to
legitimise a military bombing campaign in
Libya. This unchecked use of force by NATO
resulted in providing air support to a Libyan
revolutionary movement on the ground as
well as arming civilians and transforming them
into combatants. This approach by NATO
and the calls for regime change by Western
capitals emboldened the revolutionaries to
the extent that it prevented any viable chance
for negotiations.
The subsequent bombing campaign by
NATO ran contrary to the concerted efforts
of the AU through its Ad-Hoc High-Level
Committee (of which South Africa is part
of). The resultant change of regime by the
military campaign also undermined the AU’s
Constitutive Act, which sought to prevent the
unconstitutional change of governments of its
member states.
Third term
South Africa is now in its third term. We
have learnt from our mistakes and our less
publicised successes. The questions we
are often asked are why have we chosen to
put forward our candidature for the Security
Council? What do we hope to achieve? What
contribution can we make? The most common
question that is posed is: why bother? Why
bother expanding time and resources to serve
on the UNSC?
Countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America
and the Caribbean who were formally
under colonial occupation have become
independent. We have seen the world been
through the Cold War. We have seen the
end of the brutal system of apartheid. We
have seen the emergence of regional bodies
such as the AU and the European Union.
Throughout all this time, the UN has remained
at the centre of global politics as the standard
bearer for collective multilateral action to
address changing global challenges.
I have elaborated on our contribution in
the past two terms. We are determined to
do better with the advantage of experience.
We all know the value that the UN can bring.
Almost from the beginning of its existence
in 1945, the UN was at the forefront of
highlighting the struggle of South Africans
against racial segregation. This international
solidarity greatly contributed to our freedom.
The world today faces even more pressing
threats, including rising nationalist sentiments
and growing unilateralism. International
agreements are side-lined to pursue selfish
national interests.
It has become all the more necessary
for those countries that want to see a better
world for all to work collectively to address
contemporary challenges such as peace,
security and development and all of those
matters that affect all of us.
Since 1994, South Africa has committed
itself to this collective ideal by working with
and often leading multilateral organisations.
We have chaired the AU, SADC, the Non-
Aligned Movement, the Group of 77 and
China and served on a myriad of multilateral
bodies such as the Human Rights Council
and the Security Council, to name a few. We
do this, because we whole-heartedly believe
in the value of nations working together for a
common destiny.
We put forward our candidature to serve
on the Security Council because we believe
that due to our experience over the last 25
years in contributing to peace and security
on the continent and globally, we can make a
positive contribution to the work of the UNSC.
We put forward our candidature because 60%
of the matters discussed concern us as African
countries or countries that are undergoing the
same challenges we have experienced.
We also believe that South Africa’s tenure
at the UNSC will contribute to a better South
Africa, and a better and safer Africa in a
better world. South Africa’s own history, its
fight against colonialism and apartheid and
the progress we have made to build a better
South Africa remain important departure
points for any South African contributions
at the Security Council. The Ibrahim Index
of African Governance  ranks South Africa
REPRESENTING AFRICA IN THE WORLD

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  33
first out of 54 African countries based on the
following:
• representation of women in the judiciary
•  protection against ethnic and religious
discrimination
• capacity of election-monitoring agencies.
The Good Country Index of 2017, in terms
of international peace and security, rated
South Africa 15 out of 125 in 2014 and
second out of 163 in 2017. We intend to do
even better.
We have chosen for our tenure the
theme: “Continuing the Legacy: Working for
a Just and Peaceful World”. We will utilise
our membership of the Security Council to
emphasise and prioritise the importance of
women, peace and security. We will pursue it
vigorously, including holding a debate on the
matter during our Presidency of the Security
Council in October 2019.
Women, peace and security
Next year will mark the 20th anniversary of
UNSC Resolution 1325 (2000), which was
spearheaded by our neighbour Namibia,
during its term on the Security Council in
2000. Through Resolution 1325 and its follow-
up resolutions, the UN created a political
framework that officially mandates a gender-
responsive approach to all aspects of peace
and security work.  Despite the commitments
in this resolution, women remain excluded
within peace processes, including in the
drafting of peace agreements, and their
involvement in UN peacekeeping is limited.
In addition, the contribution of women and
girls to peacebuilding processes remains
undervalued and under-resourced, leaving a
vital tool regarding transformative change and
sustainable peace underutilised. Women and
girls who continue to be disproportionately
affected by conflict situations, especially with
regard to sexual abuse and violence, would
be a vital contribution in ensuring peace holds.
It is clear that the effective implementation
of the women, peace and security agenda
directly contributes to the objective of long-
term global peace and security. It is therefore
of particular priority for us to mainstream
issues related to women into all the issues on
the agenda of the Security Council.
South Africa’s international contributions
have been bolstered by our efforts at home.
The International School of the Department
of International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) Diplomatic Academy has capacitated
more than 500 women (South African and
African) in conflict resolution, negotiation and
mediation, addressing the mistaken notion
that there are no women with knowledge
and experience to lead and participate in
peace processes. We have also launched the
Gertrude Shope Annual Dialogue Forum, as a
policy vehicle on women, peace and security,
for women to share their ideas and experience
and to make inputs into local, regional and
international policies related to peace and
security. This idea and the network of women
have been emulated by others to form the
Nordic, Femwise (Afrtica), Mediterranean,
Commonwealth and other women mediation
networks.
In 2020, South Africa will chair the AU.
Serving on the UNSC at the same time will
allow us an opportunity to emphasise closer
cooperation between the two organisations.
As part of the May 2013 Solemn Declaration
marking the AU’s 50th anniversary, the AU
heads of state and government adopted the
programme for silencing the guns by 2020.
South Africa’s Chairship of the AU while
serving on the UNSC will be an opportunity
for us to work towards the achievement of this
aspiration. We must silence the guns. There
must be peace. Without that, everything else
is compromised.
During the first three months in our
current term on the UNSC, the council dealt
with issues ranging from Somalia, the DRC,
Sudan, South Sudan, Mali, Western Sahara,
Palestine, Syria, Yemen and Venezuela. South
Africa participated in all these deliberations
and engaged actively in the work of the
council. We have perfected our systems and
our presence is palpable. We might not have
the power of veto, but our voice is strong and
our moral authority is back.
Democratic Republic of Congo
On the situation in the DRC, South Africa
welcomed the peaceful holding of the
elections and we commended the Congolese
people and political actors for the conduct
of the elections, which saw broad and
inclusive participation of political parties. We
have called on the members of the Security
Council to reiterate their continued support
and commitment, in collaboration with
regional actors and international partners,
for the consolidation of peace, stability and
development in the DRC. In this regard,
we fully supported the mandate renewal of
the UN Peacekeeping Mission in the DRC
(MONUSCO), of which we are part of, to
ensure long-term peace and stability in the
country.
Venezuela
Regarding events in Venezuela, South Africa
maintained its principled position of calling for
non-interference in the internal processes of
Venezuela. We have argued that interference
in a sovereign state should not be used as
a tool for unconstitutional regime changes.
South Africa’s approach to Venezuela was
premised on support for inclusive political
dialogue to resolve the political crisis in
the country, and to support any legitimate
efforts to provide humanitarian support to
alleviate the hardship experienced by the
people of Venezuela. In this regard, we have
emphasised that humanitarian aid should be
de-politicised to ensure that it reaches those
in need and that the UN needs to take a
lead in ensuring that the will of the people is
guaranteed without interference.
Palestine
On the issue of Palestine, South Africa
reiterated grave concern about the continued
disregard for the prevailing and long-standing
Middle East Peace Process and attempts
to prejudge final status issues, particularly
with regard to the borders and the status of
Jerusalem through unilateral actions. The
situation between Israel and Palestine is one
of the oldest issues on the Security Council’s
agenda. It is one of the only issues that the
council has been meeting monthly on for
several years. However, little or no action is
taken by the council, primarily because of the
United States veto.
The UNSC has over the years adopted
several landmark resolutions on the
matter, including under the “land for peace”
formulation, resolutions 338 and 242 (upon
which the Moribund Peace Process is based).
These resolutions require that Israel should
withdraw from the territories it occupied in
1967 in exchange for comprehensive peace
and recognition from its Arab neighbours.
Syria
On Syria, South Africa encourages dialogue,
and has consistently called upon the parties
to pursue a political solution and support a
political settlement of the Syrian issue. South
Africa thus believes that the only sustainable
solution to the Syrian question remains the
achievement of a political solution through
an inclusive Syrian-led dialogue aimed at
achieving a political transition reflective of
the will of the Syrian people with guaranteed
protection for all groups in Syrian society.
Myanmar
The issue of Myanmar is being dealt
with by both the UNSC and the Human
Rights Council. The conflict in Myanmar,
a predominately Buddhist country, is
characterised by sectarian violence between
the Rakhine Buddhist and Rohingya Muslim
communities. The Rohingya, who numbered
around one million in Myanmar in 2017,
are one of the many ethnic minorities in the
country. Rohingya Muslims are the largest
percentage of Muslims in Myanmar, with the
majority living in Rakhine state.
Current issues in Myanmar include
the denial of citizenship to the Rohingya
communities, viewing them as illegal

REPRESENTING AFRICA IN THE WORLD

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  34
immigrants from Bangladesh and they have
previously been excluded from the 2014
census. The Rohingya have migrated across
the region in significant numbers since the
1970s with their numbers estimated much
higher than official figures. Prior to the current
crisis, thousands of the Rohingya made
perilous journeys out of Myanmar to escape
communal violence and alleged abuses by
the security forces.
In November 2018, South Africa
abstained on a resolution on Myanmar
in the Third Committee (which deals with
human rights and humanitarian issues).
This resolution condemned the Myanmar
military for its atrocities against the country’s
Rohingya Muslim minority and demanded an
independent investigation into these human
rights abuses. A majority of 142 nations
backed the resolution. Only 10 voted against
and 26 abstained. A key stated justification
for South Africa’s position was that the matter
should be dealt with by the UN Human Rights
Council in Geneva rather than the UN General
Assembly in New York.
South Africa’s abstention on the
aforementioned Third Committee Resolution
was, however, reversed when the matter
came up for a vote in the General Assembly
in December 2018 and South Africa voted in
favour of the resolution.
In investigating the matter, it was clear that
South Africa’s stance on the matter, that the
“old principle” of automatically voting against
country-specific human rights policies to guard
against regime change was now obsolete and
it was agreed that henceforth the Minister
and her senior officials would review every
vote of this nature before it was cast. South
Africa remains on guard at all times to ensure
that votes on country-specific human rights
resolutions are not used to engage in regime
changes and destabilise countries.
These are but a few of the issues we have
dealt with in the last few months. South Afica’s
approach, while recognising the specificities
of each individual conflict, has been to
advocate for inclusive political dialogue
leading to a lasting solution. It has been clear
from conflicts that have festered for decades
that short-term coercive measures that ignore
elements of society will not lead to long-term
peace.
Reform of the UNSC
South Africa’s experience in the UNSC has
once again proven to us the fundamental
need for the reform of the council and the
expansion of its membership in both the
permanent and non-permanent categories to
ensure legitimacy and credibility of this vital
UN organ.
In responding to an ever-changing world,
the council cannot remain static and must
adapt to ensure greater legitimacy and
effectiveness. While reform is not discussed
in the Security Council itself as it is a matter
dealt with by the wider membership in the
General Assembly, South Africa is determined
to work towards the improvement of the
working methods of the UNSC to ensure that
it is transparent and accountable, thereby
ensuring greater effectiveness and legitimacy
for its work.
South Africa will not be a bystander in the
council. Within the inherent constraints of the
UNSC, we will strive to make a positive and
significant contribution to the international
community’s efforts to prevent and resolve
conflicts the world over based on our foreign
policy objectives.
South Africa’s experience in the UNSC has once again proven to us the fundamental need
for the reform of the council and the expansion of its membership in both the permanent
and non-permanent categories to ensure legitimacy and credibility of this vital UN organ.

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
35

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  36
T
he year 2018 was productive and
fruitful thanks to the support of the
New Development Bank (NDB)
governors, alternate governors,
directors, alternate directors and
representatives from other institutions.
The bank supports our members’
commitment to sustainable development.
This commitment is built on simple facts. The
share of the Brazil, Russian, India, China
and South Africa (BRICS) countries in world
gross domestic product in purchasing power
parity terms has grown from 30% to 36% since
2010. This growth has put increased pressures
on natural resources and the environment.
Fortunately, however, our members have
explicitly recognised these pressures and are
increasingly investing in undoing some of the
past damage. Our members are also focussing
on implementing development strategies
aimed at minimising adverse impacts in the
future. In both these endeavours, the NDB is
being called upon to assist.
We are responding. Since inception, the bank
has based its lending on a long-term, broad
assessment of economic, environmental,
social and climate change impacts. The
NDB now looks to go beyond the “do-no-
harm” approach to incorporate a more
transformative approach to development. We
are focussing on the development impact of
our lending through more robust monitoring
frameworks and measurement of projects’
contributions to our members’ Sustainable
Development Goal (SDG) commitments.
NDB to increase lending
to SA, plans to issue
rand bonds
By Kundapur Vaman Kamath
President of the New Development Bank
Going forward, we would like to embrace the concept of impact investing
in our project portfolio. Impact investing aims to generate positive social and
environmental benefits alongside financial and economic returns. It takes a
more holistic approach to investments, incorporating positive and negative
externalities in addition to a project’s economic and financial returns.

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  37
Sustainability therefore remains at the core of
everything we do.
Building on a base of 13 loans for
US$3.4 billion at the end of 2017, the NDB
approved 17 loans totalling about US$4.6 billion
in 2018, bringing the total loan book of the bank
to 30 projects, aggregating about US$8 billion. Of
this, in response to the need for non-sovereign
lending in our member countries, the bank
approved four non-sovereign loans aggregating
about US$1 billion in three countries in 2018,
taking its total non-sovereign portfolio to about
US$1.4 billion. Nearly 80% of our lending is
now in the transport, clean energy, and water
and sanitation sectors, with urban development
and environmental protection also forming a
major part. We have also invested in building a
strong and more diversified pipeline of projects
for 2019.
During 2018, the NDB obtained an AA+
international rating, which provides it full
access to global capital markets on favourable
terms. We remain lean, efficient and fit-for-
purpose in our staffing in all areas.
The NDB envisages an evolving role this
year and beyond.
In 2019, the bank will build on the strong
momentum in our operations and double its
loan approval book to about US$16 billion. The
bank will ramp up its hard currency financing
from the international capital markets. The
NDB has made a second bond issue of
RMB3 billion from the Chinese interbank bond
market and plans to do local currency bond
issuances in South Africa, India and Russia
during the year. The NDB will also start making
equity investments and operationalise the
Project Preparation Fund.
We are well aware that our member countries
have very different systems and processes
for project origination. Some of them are
centralised while others are decentralised.
Since inception, we have invested in learning
to work with these different systems, with
country-specific approaches aimed at helping
us improve our efficiency and effectiveness.
This learning process continues. The regional
office in Johannesburg that is fully operational
has helped us make progress in South Africa.
The regional offices in Brazil and Russia that
we intend to open this year and the regional
office in India that we aim to open in due
course will help us in these three countries.
Our staff will strive to further understand our
client systems and work seamlessly in all our
member countries.
Going forward, we would like to embrace
the concept of impact investing in our project
portfolio. Impact investing aims to generate
positive social and environmental benefits
alongside financial and economic returns. It
takes a more holistic approach to investments,
incorporating positive and negative
externalities in addition to a project’s economic
and financial returns. We believe this offers
a hopeful alternative path to the traditional
approach. The industry, currently estimated
at over US$230 billion of assets under
management, has grown more than fivefold
since 2013. The NDB’s current approach to its
portfolio is largely in line with the practices of
the impact investing community and we look
forward to building on this.
Looking ahead, I am excited about
developments in several areas that will
influence our future work.
In 2018, I had touched upon the possibilities
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and
likely transformations that could be brought
about by technology-led disruption. Some of
these changes are already visible. Artificial
Intelligence and machine learning are now
a growing reality in our everyday lives and
their spheres of influence are expanding
exponentially. 5G roll-outs have already begun
and consequently, a ubiquitous Internet of
Things is now a matter of when, not if. These
technological developments are revolutionising
finance, tele-medicine, education and public
services. Innovations to further green the
global economy such as highly energy-efficient
and driverless automobiles are now beginning
to reach the mass market.
In the near future, is it conceivable that
the auto-insurance industry as we know it
today will cease to exist? Or that a significant
fraction of healthcare is delivered remotely? Or
that children will have near-universal access
to high-quality Internet-based education? Or
that our infrastructure will become so smart
that there is near zero-failure? Or that urban
transport will be completely revolutionised? I
believe it is.
These changes have far-reaching
consequences and require a new way of
thinking about the underlying infrastructure
and our role in financing it. We need to take
the opportunities presented by technological
advances and make our infrastructure smarter,
more sustainable and climate resilient. We will
actively explore avenues through which we
can support our members in these areas and
contribute to thought-leadership on this issue.
As we increase focus on development
impact as the cornerstone and key metric of
our success, we will need to look differently
at the projects that we finance. We will need
a whole new set of skills in areas ranging
from due diligence to project design to impact
reporting. We will further strengthen these
skills in our own staff and contribute to helping
achieve scale through our investments.

The bank should aim at making a significant
contribution to societal well-being. This
is a matter of existential importance. Our
shareholders have given us a very clear
mandate, which resonates with their own
aspirations. We are committed to deliver on
our mandate. We are on an exciting journey to
contribute to making the world a better place
for future generations and we look forward
to partnering with other stakeholders in this
journey.
NDB TO INCREASE LENDING TO SA

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  38
We are well aware that even working
together, multilateral development banks
(MDBs) can directly offer only a small part of
the total resources required to achieve the
SDGs that our members have signed on to.
Crowding-in other investors, particularly in
the private sector, is critical if we are to make
a significant contribution. To achieve this,
designing new products that are appropriate
for a broad spectrum of investors is essential.
The creation of robust secondary markets in
our member countries is imperative; they will
help meet the current demand for projects
that suit investors’ needs. MDBs could act
as originators of projects, play their important
role in de-risking such projects and offer these
projects to private investors, thereby enabling
better use of their capital. Going forward, the
i
The Fourth Annual Meeting of the New Development Bank (NDB), which was held in Cape Town from 31 March to 2 April 2019, was a
resounding success, with three of the five new projects approved for funding by the bank’s Board of Directors being South African. The five
projects bring the NDB’s project portfolio to more than US$9.2 billion.
The three South African projects are separate from the loan agreements that the NDB signed on 1 April 2019 with Eskom and the
Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA). Once the NDB’s Board of Directors approves a project for funding, the bank’s management
and the entity to be funded enter into negotiations which culminate in the signing of a loan agreement.
The three new projects that were approved by the NDB board are for Eskom, the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) and the Trans-
Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA).
Eskom: In line with its focus on supporting clean energy in South Africa, the NDB will provide a US$480 million project loan to Eskom for
environmental protection project for the Medupi Thermal Power Plant.
IDC: The proceeds of the bank’s R1.150 billion (approximately US$80 million) loan will be on-lent by the IDC to renewable energy
subprojects contributing to the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, improvement of South Africa’s energy sector mix, as well as the increase
of energy efficiency of the economy.
TCTA: The NDB will provide a project loan of R3.2 billion (US$220 million) to the TCTA for the implementation of Phase II of Lesotho
Highlands Water Project and financing the construction of water transfer infrastructure. The project will augment the water supply in the Vaal
River Basin, home to South Africa’s most economically important province, Gauteng. Three other provinces (the North West, Mpumalanga and
Free State provinces) will also directly benefit from an increased water supply.
The Lesotho Highlands Water Project talks to the call by the Minister of Finance, Tito Mboweni, that the NDB should consider funding more
infrastructure projects in the southern Africa region. “The infrastructure in southern Africa is interconnected and therefore our approach to the
funding of projects in southern Africa should take this into account. I urge the NDB to look, for example, at the possible devastating impact on
the region if the wall of the Kariba dam were to collapse.”
The NDB signed two loans agreements with Eskom and the DBSA. The loans are targeted for renewable energy projects. For Eskom, the
loan will be used for the renewable energy integration and transmission augmentation project. Under the agreement, the NDB will provide a
sovereign-guaranteed loan to Eskom amounting to US$180 million. The project will integrate a total of 670 MW of renewable energy into the
Eskom’s grid.
A loan agreement signed between the NDB and the DBSA is for a greenhouse gas emissions reduction and energy sector development
project. Under the agreement, the NDB will provide a loan without a sovereign guarantee to the tune of US$300 million. The project is designed
to support renewable energy projects in South Africa and help the economy to shift to a more sustainable energy path through structural
transformation of the energy sector with emerging renewable technologies.
One of the other major outcomes of the annual meeting was an in-principle agreement to expand the membership of the NDB beyond the
founding members. Negotiations in this regard are ongoing, with an announcement on the way forward expected by the end of the year.
NDB TO INCREASE LENDING TO SA
NDB will work with partners to contribute to
this process.
The Africa Regional Centre (ARC) was
launched in Johannesburg in August 2017. We
are pleased to see that it is already bearing
fruit. While the bank only approved three
projects from South Africa aggregating
US$680 million, in the past three years,
the ARC has enabled us to quickly identify
six projects for 2019. Of these, three projects,
aggregating US$790 million, were approved
by the Board of Directors at the Fourth Annual
Meeting in Cape Town in April 2019. The NDB
plans to end the year with total loan approvals
of about US$2.3 billion in South Africa.
The bank should aim at making a
significant contribution to societal well-being.
This is a matter of existential importance.
Our shareholders have given us a very clear
mandate, which resonates with their own
aspirations. We are committed to deliver on
our mandate. We are on an exciting journey to
contribute to making the world a better place
for future generations and we look forward
to partnering with other stakeholders in this
journey.

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
39
NDB TO INCREASE LENDING TO SA

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  40
Increased relations between SA and
GRULAC will better the lives of our
people
We must boldly re-double our efforts in increasing trade between South Africa
and Latin America and South Africa and the Caribbean to realise the potential
of our respective countries. Our efforts should better the lives of our people
through bilateral cooperation in mutually beneficial fields.
By Luwellyn Landers
Former Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
T
he relations between South
Africa and the Latin American
and Caribbean Regional Group
(GRULAC), etched in historical
friendship, solidarity and struggle
and informed by the common belief in human
rights and justice, have increased since
the establishment of our formal diplomatic
relations with the respective GRULAC member
countries.
Our shared values and beliefs must guide
us in our common quest to liberate all our
people from the remnants of colonialism and
oppression in all its forms.
Nelson Mandela once said: “For to be free
is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to
live in a way that respects and enhances the
freedom of others.”
Economic freedom remains the key to total
liberation. This is a sentiment that is cardinal
in our thinking. We must boldly re-double our
efforts in increasing trade between South
Africa and Latin America and South Africa
and the Caribbean to realise the potential of
our respective countries. Our efforts should
better the lives of our people through bilateral
cooperation in mutually benefi  cial fi  elds.
The knowledge gap between South Africa
and Latin America presents an opportunity to
bridge the gap through continued engagement
between our countries. Furthermore, high-level
visits between respective countries promote
cultural exchange as well as political, social
and economic interaction.
South Africa maintains strong relations
with Brazil in terms of multilateral linkages as
a result of our memberships in Brazil, Russia,
India, China and South Africa (BRICS) and
India, Brazil and South Africa (IBSA) as well as
bilateral investments and trade.
Our relations with Brazil need to be further
strengthened with a bold new play of doubling
trade and investment to ensure that we realise
the fruits of our bilateral relations. This is also
extended to our friends in the rest of the region
of Latin America and the Caribbean.
South Africa and Venezuela have always
maintained strong political relations. To this end,
we remain deeply concerned about the current
political challenges engulfi  ng that country. We
believe that the current social, political and
economic challenges in Venezuela should be
resolved in a peaceful manner through the
proper mechanisms and processes without
external infl  uence. We strongly condemn any
foreign interference in the domestic political
matters of a country as it violates the principles
of sovereignty and international law.
Together with the Republic of Cuba, we
remain strategic partners as we explore various
ways of enhancing our bilateral relations.
As relations between our countries within
this region continue to grow, we continue to
engage in efforts to bring our countries closer
in the context of South-South cooperation.
This will allow us to continuously share ideas
in respect of local, regional and global political
developments that affect our countries. The
soft power presented by cultural cooperation
should be strengthened to bring South Africa
closer to GRULAC.  Furthermore, our common
position in the G77 should be utilised to bring
us closer together.
This year, we celebrate 25 years of
democracy in South Africa. We have come
a long way in building our democracy and
ensuring a better life for all our citizens.
Despite our many challenges that we have
endured, including the triple challenges of
poverty, inequality, unemployment, as well as
corruption, most of the social and economic
indicators do show that life has improved
drastically for the majority of South Africans
and in particular the historically oppressed
black people.
To this end, we express our gratitude
to the GRULAC member countries for
their contribution to building our fl  edgling
democracy. In this regard, I must pay tribute
to the role that Cuba has played in both the
fi  ght against apartheid and in helping to build
our democracy since 1994, despite their own
challenges that they face due to the more than
fi  ve decades of the United States economic
blockade.
South Africa currently serves as a non-
permanent member of the United Nations
Security Council (UNSC) for the 2019 to 2020
term. South Africa’s tenure will be driven by
DIPLOMACY | INCREASED RELATIONS BETWEEN SA AND GRULAC WILL BETTER THE LIVES OF OUR PEOPLE
40 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  41
Nelson Mandela once said:
“For to be free is not merely
to cast off one’s chains, but
to live in a way that respects
and enhances the freedom of
others.”
INCREASED RELATIONS BETWEEN SA AND GRULAC WILL BETTER THE LIVES OF OUR PEOPLE | DIPLOMACY
41Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
the legacy of President Nelson Mandela and
his undying commitment to the promotion
and protection of human rights throughout
the world. South Africa thanks the GRULAC
countries for their support and vote during the
UNSC elections held on 8 June 2018. For its
UNSC tenure, South Africa will count on the
support of GRULAC members as we carry the
voice of the global South on the global and
multilateral platform.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  42
W
e owe it to ourselves to
make the continent a
success story. The more
we trust each other with
direct investments, the
more we are likely to grow and attract foreign
direct investments to our continent.
There is something poetic in the fact that
South Africa’s Presidential Inauguration took
place on 25 May 2019, which was also Africa
Africa tells a remarkable story but we
dare not rest
By Phumla Williams
Acting CEO, Government Communication and Information System
We continue to see the role of media and communication
as central to what we all are striving for on the continent.
Day. On this day in 1963, all independent
African states set aside their differences to form
an organisation known as the Organisation of
African Unity.
South Africa was one of the last nations to
join this organisation, which then became the
venue for the birth of the African Union (AU)
in 2002.
In the midst of organising the Presidential
inauguration, the Government Communication
and Information System hosted an African
Press Attachés Roundtable on 22 May 2019 at
Tshedimosetso House, the seat of government
communication.
This gathering was in line with the
resolutions of the AU Specialised Technical
Committee on Communication and ICT
which, among others, seek to promote the
work and achievements of integration and
intercontinental trading as Africans.

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  43
opportunities, we risk opening the door and
allowing misperceptions to take hold.
As we commemorated Africa Day with
President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, we
should take pride in our achievements as a
continent while bearing in mind that more
needs to be done to realise the full vision of the
founding fathers of the AU.
Since its formation, the AU has strived to
build a better, more united and prosperous
continent. The organisation has shifted its
focus to ensure economic emancipation and
socio-economic development in Africa. It
currently leads the promotion of regional and
market integration that will see the lowering of
transport costs, enable the free movement of
goods, services and people, and encourage
the optimisation of resources.
We dare not rest until all who call Africa
home are empowered to build a better
tomorrow, free from injustice, inequality and
unemployment.
This engagement brought together Africa’s
press attachés and editors from across the
African continent based in South Africa, as
well as press offi  cers under the AU banner.
As we refl  ected on the continent’s priorities,
we noted how far we had come. The dramatic
rise of African member states as a signifi  cant
trading bloc to our country, overtaking Europe
in 2013 and on par with Asia since 2014, is a
clear indication that South Africa’s prosperous
future is intertwined with that of the continent.
The economic adviser to President Cyril
Ramaphosa, Trudi Makhaya, illustrated
how InvestSA was actively collaborating
with investment-promotion agencies on the
continent and had signed memoranda of
understanding with the Kenyan Investment
Authority, the Uganda Investment Authority
and GAFI in Egypt. The intention is to foster
closer collaboration between these agencies
in attracting foreign direct investments to the
continent.
Our commitments to the vision of Pan-
Africanists, including Kwame Nkhrumah of
Ghana, Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Sekou
Toure of Guinea and Kenneth Kaunda of
Zambia, fi  nd voice in the growing partnerships
between fellow nations on the continent. The
implementation of this vision is well illustrated
by a series of developments across Africa.
Ms Makhaya informed us that intra-Africa
investments had been growing at a compound
rate of 32.5%. This is impressive! Africa’s
rising population market of 1.2 billion people
is compelling, our story of an integrated Africa
with a gross domestic product of more than
US$3.4 trillion is remarkable.
We, as African communicators, ought to
tell the stories and inform our youth of the vast
opportunities that are available across Africa.
Knowledge is power and this was refl  ected
in the presentation of Thulani Mavuso, the
Acting Director-General of Home Affairs, on
innovations which promote and ensure that
Africans have free movement to trade and
study and live in South Africa. The web-based
e-Home Affairs system is truly easy, effi  cient
and secure. These interventions have now
improved the facilitation of people, movement
and goods, making it easier for African tourists,
business and academia to come to South
Africa.
During the interaction, discussions focussed
on the important role that communicators, in
partnership with the media, can play to shape
perceptions of our continent. In today’s world,
perception has a price. What is perceived to be
real, often takes on a life of its own and if we
do not promote our continent, its virtues and
There is something
poetic in the fact
that South Africa’s
Presidential Inauguration
took place on 25 May
2019, which was also
Africa Day. On this day
in 1963, all independent
African states set aside
their differences to form
an organisation known
as the Organisation of
African Unity.
AFRICA TELLS A REMARKABLE STORY

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  44
A
frica-Asia economic interaction is
rooted in a network of historical
interconnections, which date
back to precolonial networks
across the Indian Ocean, and
between North Africa and the Middle East.
Lebanese migrant communities in West Africa,
Belt and Road Initiative – Alternative
development path for Africa
By Amb Anil Sooklal, Deputy Director-General: Asia and the Middle East, Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO);
Dr Thokozani Simelani, Leader for Science and Technology at the Africa Institute for South Africa within the Human Sciences Research Council
and; Jaimal Anand, Assistant Director: Asia and the Middle East, DIRCO
China’s emphasis on infrastructure development is in line with
Africa’s Agenda 2063 as well as aspirations on the continent.
which took root during the colonial era, and
relations with countries like Tanzania, the
Democratic Republic of Congo (formerly Zaire)
and many others, forged during the Cold War,
also contribute to the connection.
Africa and Asia formed part of an expansive
global trade and commercial network until the
medieval era. This global network peaked from
the eighth century to the late 16th century,
facilitated by a series of interactions, one of
which was the Trans-Saharan trade route, one
of four intercontinental routes (along with the
Chinese Silk Route, the Spice Route and the
Persian Royal Route). It brought trade from
BELT AND ROAD INITIATIVE – ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT PATH FOR AFRICA

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  45
North Africa, Europe and Asia (including the
Middle East) to sub-Saharan Africa.
The current Africa-Asia footprint of
networks and relations (which include
economic, political and cultural ties, as well as
social networks) build and expand on these
interactions that were established during pre-
and colonial era expansions.
China’s peaceful rise, sometimes referred
to as China’s “peaceful development” is not a
new notion in China’s soft-power diplomacy,
but it became offi  cial policy in China under
the leadership of President Hu Jintao (2003
– 2013). The term was adopted in response
to the “China threat theory”. China wanted to
assure other countries, especially regional
partners, that its rise would not pose a
threat to world peace and security, and that
it would promote a peaceful international
environment and friendly relations with other
nations. The idea was further articulated in
300 reform measures adopted during the
18th Conference of the Communist Party
of China in November 2012. The notion of
“peripheral diplomacy” (zhoubian), or so-
called “neighbourhood diplomacy”, set a new
tone for China’s regional diplomatic strategy.
It was based on the principle of virtuous
interaction, and has had a signifi  cant impact
on regional Asian dynamics.
When China’s current President Xi
Jinping visited central and southeast Asia in
September and October 2013, he announced
One Belt, One Road (OBOR) with a view
to guaranteeing economic development
by integrating a number of countries in
Asia, Africa and Europe through two main
components: the land-based “Silk Road
Economic Belt” (SREB), and the ocean-going
“21st Century Maritime Silk Road” (MSR),
to which the Indian Ocean is central. This
strategic initiative has since attracted close
attention from all over the world.
The SREB strategy follows the route
of the ancient Silk Road, extended into
south and southeast Asia. The intention
is to improve infrastructure, with the aim
of increasing trade and cultural exchange
in the region, in order to achieve greater
economic and cultural cohesion. Countries
which are included are members of the Asian
Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), led by
China. The overall strategy aims at investing
in the infrastructure of, and fostering deeper
collaboration with, southeast Asia and Africa
(Figure 1.1), utilising contiguous bodies of
water, such as the South China Sea, the
South Pacifi  c Ocean and the wider Indian
Ocean bordering on the east Africa region.
This region of Africa (particularly Kenya) will
form part of 21st Century MSR, through the
improvement of local ports and construction
of modern standard-gauge rail links between
Nairobi and Mombasa.
As outlined in the vision and action plan
published by the Chinese Government,
the purpose of jointly building SREB and
21st Century MSR is to re-connect Asian,
European and African countries more closely
and promote mutually benefi  cial cooperation.
This is emphasised by the fact that China
has stressed from the outset that OBOR will
be developed within the framework of “Five
Principles of Peaceful Coexistence”:
•  mutual respect for each other’s territorial
integrity and sovereignty
• non-aggression
•  non-interference in each other’s internal
affairs
• equality and mutual benefi  t
• peaceful coexistence.
In the context of the recent rise of
protectionism and a corresponding possible
compromise of world peace, these principles
represent China’s approach to international
engagement and development.
In line with China’s engagement with the
world, OBOR does not need to be confi  ned
within the footprints of the ancient Silk
Road. As such, Africa is one of the regions
considered to be among the key global
growth points, and China has increased
its interaction with Africa through various
means, which include the Forum on China-
Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). As OBOR and
FOCAC strategies unfold, it is imperative that
the African continent is fully incorporated into
China’s grand vision of OBOR so as to further
cement historical bonds. To achieve this, it will
be vital to determine how OBOR and FOCAC
can complement Africa’s Agenda 2063: the re-
industrialisation of the continental economy,
improved connectivity and infrastructure,
diversifi  cation of economies, technology
transfer and skills development.
China’s emphasis on infrastructure
development is in line with Africa’s Agenda
2063 as well as aspirations on the continent.
As a result, both FOCAC and OBOR
have received positive endorsement by
African leaders. The visit by Premier Li
Keqiang to some African countries during
May 2014 served to further cement China-
African cooperation, especially in the
infrastructure domain. China’s contribution
to infrastructure development in Africa was
further consolidated by the signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding between
China and the African Union on 27 January
2015. The prevailing trade, economic and
development initiatives linked to the OBOR
Strategy and Africa’s blueprint outlined in
Agenda 2063, seem to bring China-African
cooperation closer.
This is supported by the fact that regional
integration programmes in Africa also
emphasise expanding and integrating trade
and include the establishment of free trade
areas, custom unions, monetary unions and
common markets as well as infrastructure
development projects in transport, information
and communications technology and energy.
The synergy between these initiatives and
the intentions of FOCAC and OBOR, with
regard to infrastructure development, present
a compelling case for Africa to view OBOR
and FOCAC as presenting opportunities for
a benefi  cial relationship between China and
Africa.
Figure 1.1: Footprints of One Belt One Road
BELT AND ROAD INITIATIVE – ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT PATH FOR AFRICA

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  46
Africa’s role in OBOR should be underpinned
by the following critical areas:
• industrialisation
• infrastructure development
•  development of special economic zones
and industrial parks
• development of the energy sector
• development of the Ocean Economy
• development finance
• human resource and skills development.
OBOR is important economically, given
China’s financial resources. Three financial
institutions have been set up to support its
development, although this has been met with
some resistance from the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund (the so-called
Bretton Woods institutions), and the African
Development Bank.
Launched in February 2014, the China-led
US$40-billion Silk Road Infrastructure Fund
invests in OBOR infrastructure projects. The
fund is capitalised mainly by China’s forex
reserves and is intended to be managed
like China’s sovereign wealth fund. Jin Qi,
who serves as the assistant to the People’s
Bank of China Governor, has been nominated
to be the fund’s chief executive. The China-
led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank,
founded in October 2014, aspires to be a global
development bank with 21 Asian member
countries and with capital of US$100 billion.
The BRICS New Development Bank (NDB),
established in July 2014, is also set to provide
major support towards OBOR developmental
projects. The bank has been seeded with
US$50 billion initial capital, with the intention
to increase capital to US$100 billion.
Going forward, financial integration is
important for implementing the Belt and
Road Initiative. Hence the common will to
lend full support to the Asian Infrastructure
Investment Bank and the BRICS NDB, and
fully operationalise the Silk Road Fund as soon
as possible.
Discussions among African states and
regional partners on how Africa as a continent
can fully participate in the OBOR strategy are
now open. This started with the One Belt One
Road and Prosperous Africa Conference, held
in Durban, South Africa, in November 2015,
the first Belt and Road Conference to be held
in Africa. The conference discussed synergies
to be drawn between the OBOR strategy
and AU Agenda 2063, and possibilities of
how to merge these two were discussed.
Acknowledging a need to analyse the
prospects of OBOR and FOCAC from African
perspectives, the publication Belt and Road
Initiative – Alternative Development Path for
Africa is a collection of papers presented at
that conference. Its main objective is to help
formulate a continental-wide response to the
OBOR strategy.
This article is extracted from the publication Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) – Alternative Development Path for Africa, launched during a seminar,
which was held at the Chinese Embassy in Pretoria on 25 April 2019. The seminar debated South Africa’s involvement in the BRI.
The BRI has received the support of many countries across the world. China has signed 174 cooperation documents on the initiative with
126 countries to date and invested more than US$90 billion (R1.3 trillion) in related projects.
In his address to the local seminar, China’s Ambassador to South Africa, Lin Songtian, reiterated President Xi’s statements that the goal of
the initiative was to achieve win-win cooperation for common development globally, through the building of connectivity in policy, infrastructure,
trade, finance and people-to-people exchange.
The Chinese Embassy event was supported by the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, and Deputy Director-General
responsible for Asia and the Middle East, Ambassador Anil Sooklal, who was also on the panel of speakers, along with several South African
think-tanks and academics.
i
BELT AND ROAD INITIATIVE – ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT PATH FOR AFRICA

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
47

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  48
DIPLOMACY | SOUTH AFRICA HANDS OVER BRICS COUNCIL CHAIRSHIP
S
peaking at the conclusion of a
two-day mid-term BBC meeting
in Johannesburg on 4 April
2019, the former Minister of
International Relations and
Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said South Africa
welcomed the assurance from Brazil that the
new Government was committed to BRICS
and continuing the relationship.
BRICS is an acronym for the powerful
grouping of the world’s leading emerging
economies, namely Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa.
Minister Sisulu assured the BBC of the
country’s support as it navigated its way
around the continent.
South Africa hands over
BRICS Council
Chairship
The South African Government has
handed over the Chairship of the
BRICS Business Council (BBC)
following 12 successful months at the
helm.
“South Africa will chair the African Union (AU)
in 2020 to usher in the Africa Continental Free
Trade Area (AfCFTA). A vibrant and energetic
council is a very necessary partner for this.
“Yesterday, the 22nd country signed
the AfCFTA, the minimum threshold for
the agreement to come into effect. It bodes
well for Africa, for South Africa and for the
Business Council as it opens up Africa for new
business opportunities.”
Minister Sisulu said she was encouraged
by the “exuberance” of the meeting.
“I hope you enjoyed your stay and hope
you stay a little longer. We need you here
for the long haul. The BRICS family is a

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  49
very important one to us and we’d like you
make sure that you give the necessary
underpinnings of this very important
association,” Minister Sisulu said.
Businessperson Busi Mabuza, who
chaired the council for the past 12 months,
said the South African council was confident
Brazil would take the BBC to greater heights.
Mabuza served in the council with Ayanda
Ntsaluba, Bridgette Radebe, Stavros Nicolaou
and Elias Monage.
She highlighted the inroads made in the
enhancement of the relationship between the
New Development Bank and the BBC, which
she said was strengthened in the past year.
“We have started seeing the fruits of that
on the ground in South Africa and we are very
pleased. The Energy Dialogue that was held in
November last year was a proud moment for
us. We were pleased with the outcomes of the
skills challenge and I believe it is the reason
SOUTH AFRICA HANDS OVER BRICS COUNCIL CHAIRSHIP
our colleagues in the Skills Development
Working Group continue to advocate for us to
continue with it,” she said.
Over the past year, she said the BBC had
discussed infrastructure work that was being
done.
“We are most excited about the opportunity
that is often around maritime activities and
we’d request that Brazil picks up on this issue,”
she said.
Mabuza expressed gratitude for the
support received from Minister Sisulu; former
Trade and Industry Minister, Rob Davies; and
President Cyril Ramaphosa.
Incoming Chairperson, José Serrador, said
his country recognised the excellent work done
by its predecessors, “especially South Africa,
for the strict cooperation in the process of
handing over the Chairpersonship”.
“We encourage the debate of measures
that will make the demands of the Business
Council more efficient and more civil. We
would like to emphasise the voice of the private
sector with our governments. We count on all
national sections to reach this goal,” he said.
Initially, Serrador said, Brazil would
propose three main issues for debate in 2019:
investment facilitation, trade facilitation and
innovation and digital economy.
“The presentations of the working groups
show these topics are already a part of our
discussions, many of which have been very
robust, and proposals that will be highlighted in
our recommendations to our heads of state at
the 2019 summit.”
Serrador announced that this year’s BRICS
Summit would be held on 13 and 14 November
in Brasilia, under theme “Economic Growth
and Innovative Future”.
SAnews.gov.za

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  50
DIPLOMACY | THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AT 70: THE CHALLENGES THAT AWAIT THE UN
S
eventy years after the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights (UDHR), we do
not only have cause to complain,
far from it. We must take stock
of the distance we have already travelled.
Before 1945 and the United Nations (UN)
Charter, human rights simply did not exist in
international law. An individual was only an
“object” of international law and states, except
in a few specifi  c cases. Countries did not need
to justify the way they treated their nationals:
their sovereignty effectively granted them
power of life or death over their citizens.
Since then, and using the declaration
as its foundation, a complete and coherent
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights at 70: The challenges that
await the UN
By Olivier de Frouville
Professeur de droit public (Paris-Assas), Institut Universitaire de France (IUF)
“... if international human rights law is particularly concrete
and consistent, it must answer novel questions. New
technologies in particular are challenging our relation to
freedom and dignity.”
system of norms, widely accepted by
states, has developed into what is often
called “international human rights law”: nine
fundamental UN conventions, of which two
are the covenants on civil and political rights
and on economic, social and cultural rights,
and seven other treaties which enumerate
states’ obligations regarding certain violations
(torture, enforced disappearances, racial and
gender-based discriminations) or towards
certain categories of persons (children, people
with disabilities, migrant workers); regional
conventions such as the European Convention
on Human Rights; and a multitude of texts,
treaties and other instruments.
A legal basis for action
What is striking in this ensemble is its
coherence: all these texts are grounded in
the same principles, those asserted by the
UDHR. To say that today human rights are
not universally recognised in international law
is absurd: over the last 70 years, a process of
legal universalisation has occurred, and no
state seriously disputes them anymore.
Of course, these norms are not enough
to end all human rights violations, but they
provide each and everyone with a legal basis to
act and oppose them. And beyond the norms,
there are also implementation mechanisms.
Starting in 1948, an entire apparatus
has progressively been established that
UBUNTU
South Africa’s
 Public Diplomacy in action
 Issue 18
50

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  51
abounds with procedures and organs which
continuously monitor human rights situations
all over the world. Ten UN committees act as
“guardians” of the core conventions, while an
ensemble of “special procedures” – special
rapporteurs, independent experts and working
groups – work on human rights violations daily
and visit countries in order to produce public
reports.
Various international commissions of
inquiry have also been created on a more
ad hoc basis in the recent years, in order to
document the violations and crimes committed
in Syria, Burundi, Yemen, Myanmar or the
occupied Palestinian territories. Regional
courts have been put in place: the European
Court of Human Rights, of course, but also the
Inter-American Court and the African Court of
Human and Peoples’ Rights. We are close to
reaching what, in 1795, Kant posited as an
ideal: that any violation committed in any part
of the world is felt everywhere else.
Here again, this architecture is strikingly
coherent: all these experts and judges apply
the same standards and, if we exclude some
isolated cases, have adopted the same
interpretations. By patiently applying them
in particular cases, in situations unique to
each country, each context, they contribute
to ensuring that human rights, which are
universal in their principles and at the judicial
level, become universal in the daily life of all
citizens of the world.
However, although the distance we’ve come
in 70 years is impressive, many challenges
remain.
An intellectual challenge
The fi  rst challenge is intellectual: we are
witnessing a resurgence of anti-human rights
ideologies and, more generally, to what
underpins human rights: principles stemming
will be called upon to facilitate the renovation
of the essential procedure by which states
submit periodic reports to the UN committees,
by creating a global and coordinated calendar.
Beyond this, what must absolutely be
improved is the procedure for reviewing
individual complaints through the creation of
a UN Human Rights Court which, standing
above the relevant committees, would ensure
a unifi  ed interpretation of the legal standards
and strengthen their jurisprudence’s authority
in coordination with other regional courts and
the International Court of Justice.
The normative challenge
Finally, the last challenge is normative because,
if international human rights law is particularly
concrete and consistent, it must answer novel
questions. New technologies in particular are
challenging our relation to freedom and dignity.
Mass surveillance, for example, has given
infringements on privacy a new reach and it
is unsure whether our current legal standards
can address it. Similarly, science’s predictive
capacity threatens the principle of autonomy:
if science can always predict what we will be,
what room do we have left to exist?
Another major issue is the degradation of
our environment and climate change: even as
human rights are based on an anthropocentric
philosophy, should we not be rethinking our
relationship to Nature (and not simply to our
human environment)? The challenge will be
to reaffi  rm the principles of political modernity
while also acknowledging Nature, or even
recognising its own rights.
These challenges are important: we must
not wait until the Declaration’s 80th anniversary
to raise to them.
This article fi  rst appeared on The Conversation.
from the Enlightenment and its philosophies.
Human rights have been accused by some of
being complicit with economic neoliberalism,
or of being a mask for certain major powers’
imperialism.
For others, human rights are “against the
people” because they exclusively defend
minorities against the majority or give power
to “experts” who lack democratic legitimacy.
In other circles, human rights are criticised for
allegedly distorting human nature by harming
anthropological structures such as the family.
What is often noticeable in these attacks is
the ignorance or intentional distortion of what
human rights as legal standards are: those
who express such criticisms have rarely read a
ruling by the European Court of Human Rights.
If these anti-Enlightenment schools of
thought had become a minority after the
Second World War, they are fi  nding a new
echo in today’s public opinions: unscrupulous
politicians do not hesitate to offer them as an
answer to legitimate feelings of injustice within
societies. Nowadays, defenders of democracy
and human rights can no longer ignore
these criticisms but must confront them and
deconstruct their discourses to prove that they
provide the wrong answers to what are often
the right questions.
An institutional challenge
Another challenge is institutional and chiefl  y
concerns the UN system: it has been said,
the mechanisms which today protect human
rights are numerous and play a crucial role.
However, their proliferation has made the
system hard to understand and complicated
citizens’ ability to use it, while lack of resources
limits its effectiveness in practice.
Several processes are currently underway
to perfect it. In 2020, the UN General Assembly

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  52
Once, hundreds of thousands of lions roamed the world, but today conservationists give approximate numbers of
between 25 000 and 30 000 left, most in sub-Saharan Africa. In South Africa, chances of seeing lions are high,
whether in the country’s national parks or in private game reserves.
DIPLOMACY | FOREIGN POLICY PRIORITIES SOUTH AFRICA SHOULD PURSUE
F
ollowing its fi  rst democratic election
in 1994, South Africa quickly went
from being an apartheid pariah
state to one of the world’s most
active and leading multilateralists.
For example, it’s the only African member
of the G20. This international forum of
governments and central banks is responsible
for 90% of the gross world product and 80%
of world trade. South Africa was also invited
to join Brazil, Russia, India and China to form
the BRICS group.
The pattern hasn’t ended, yet. For the third
time in 12 years, it has been elected a non-
permanent member of the United Nations
(UN) Security Council, for 2019 and 2020.
Next year, it will concurrently chair the African
Union.
South Africa’s prominence may be partly
explained as the afterglow of the country’s
generally peaceful democratic political
transformation. Last July, former United
States (US) President Barack Obama extolled
the enduring virtues of this process in the
fi  rst public lecture of his post-presidency,
delivered in Johannesburg. Two months later,
a Mandela Peace Summit was held in New
York at the start of the UN General Assembly.
In my view, there are three urgent issues
at the interplay of foreign and domestic affairs
that will be of strategic long-term importance
to South Africa and Africa.
These are what it should do to avoid being
hurt by bilateral trade disputes between the
US and China; mitigate and adapt to effects
of climate change; and, defend South Africa’s
liberal values and policy of pressing for
multilateral solutions – short of regime change
– in countries where human rights abuses are
rampant.
Foreign policy priorities South Africa
should pursue
By John J Stremlau
Visiting Professor of International Relations, University of the Witwatersrand
South Africa continues to enjoy an unusual degree of
international prominence normally accorded to states that are
more powerful, prosperous, or strategically located than it.
Trade
Expanding South African trade and attracting
greater foreign investment for jobs and
development was the only major international
issue in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of
the Nation Address in February 2019.
The foreign policy and diplomatic aspects
of trade have become more pronounced in
the wake of the dispute between the US and
China.
South Africa has already suffered collateral
damage. For example, the US has unilaterally
raised duties on steel and aluminium imports.
There’s also a potential collateral threat
from brewing disputes over domination and
regulation of the digital economy, use of
robotics and Artifi  cial Intelligence.
Another top long-term priority on the trade
front must involve ensuring the World Trade
Organisation is modernised and empowered
to mediate these disputes by democratic
consensus.
More immediately, South Africa is rightly
pursuing economic integration with its
neighbours. It’s also celebrating the imminent
establishment of an African Continental Free
Trade Area. Such cooperation should benefi  t
the country and strengthen Africa’s position in
global trading negotiations.
Climate change
South Africa’s biggest and broadest long-
term diplomatic challenge is climate change.
It must engage in the politics of dealing
collectively with climate issues regionally and
globally. The aim must be to ensure secure
resources for the benefi  t of the most seriously
affected.
The recent Cyclone Idai was symptomatic
of the extreme weather events linked to
global warming. It was close to home for
South Africa. Both the Government as well as
citizens responded quickly and effectively to
help alleviate the suffering in Mozambique,
Malawi and Zimbabwe.
Preparing for – and dealing with – such
disasters portends huge international political
and diplomatic challenges for South Africa.
## Responsibility to protect
A third strategic issue is whether, when and
how to act in defence of what’s known as the
Responsibility to Protect. This is the obligation
There’s also a potential collateral threat
from brewing disputes over domination and
regulation of the digital economy, use of
Another top long-term priority on the trade
front must involve ensuring the World Trade
Organisation is modernised and empowered
to mediate these disputes by democratic
More immediately, South Africa is rightly
pursuing economic integration with its
neighbours. It’s also celebrating the imminent
establishment of an African Continental Free
Trade Area. Such cooperation should benefi  t
the country and strengthen Africa’s position in
South Africa’s biggest and broadest long-
term diplomatic challenge is climate change.
It must engage in the politics of dealing
collectively with climate issues regionally and
globally. The aim must be to ensure secure
resources for the benefi  t of the most seriously
The recent Cyclone Idai was symptomatic
of the extreme weather events linked to

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  53
FOREIGN POLICY PRIORITIES SOUTH AFRICA SHOULD PURSUE
states have to protect their own populations –
and those in other countries – against the risk
of genocide and other mass atrocities.
The approach stipulates three pillars of
responsibility. First, every state must protect
its populations from four mass atrocity
crimes: genocide, war crimes, crimes against
humanity and ethnic cleansing. Secondly,
the international community must encourage
and assist individual states in meeting this
responsibility. And fi  nally, if a state manifestly
fails to protect its population, the international
community must be prepared to take
appropriate collective action in accordance
with the UN Charter.
Twenty-fi  ve years ago, UN members could
celebrate their efforts to help end apartheid.
But they also mourned their failure to prevent
or halt the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
Since then, when and how to invoke this
responsibility have posed several daunting
diplomatic challenges. This has been
One recent and rare instance of unilateral
diplomatic action was South Africa’s decision
to protest against Israel’s extreme human
rights abuses of Palestinians. It did so by
withdrawing its ambassador and downgrading
its embassy to a liaison offi  ce.
Foreign policy controversies inevitably
arise over how to redress the abuse of basic
human rights within a sovereign state. A case
in point was the world’s response during the
struggles to end apartheid.
Now, democratic South Africa enjoys
special respect for its political achievements.
But it also carries an added burden in
upholding these values locally and globally.
Its history teaches us the wisdom – which
can be applied to multilateral relations among
states as much as to the well-being of people
within them – of Rev Martin Luther King’s
statement that:
“True peace is not merely the absence of
tension: it is the presence of justice.”
This article was fi  rst published on The Conversation.
particularly true for South Africa, given its
history of domestic repression and prominent
advocacy for human rights.
The former Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu,
explained earlier this year that Pretoria
opposed regime change, especially if done
unilaterally. An example was the 2003 US-led
invasion of Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein.
South Africa hasn’t always got its ducks in
a row on this issue, as former Minister Sisulu
candidly acknowledged. For example, it
regrets initially backing a UN Security Council
resolution to intervene to protect Libyan
civilians. The reason for this was that the
mission abruptly escalated. And it culminated
in ending the regime of Muamar Qaddafi  .
Another example cited by former Minister
Sisulu was Myanmar. She admitted that South
Africa was initially wrong not to back stronger
UN action to defend human rights.
Foreign policy controversies inevitably arise over how to redress the abuse of basic
human rights within a sovereign state. A case in point was the world’s response
during the struggles to end apartheid.
Issue 18
South Africa’s
 Public Diplomacy in action
 UBUNTU
 53

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  54
DIPLOMACY | WHY WESTERN SAHARA REMAINS ONE OF AFRICA’S MOST DIVISIVE POLITICAL ISSUES
Why Western Sahara remains one of
Africa’s most divisive political issues
South Africa and Namibia hosted a solidarity conference
with Western Sahara, convened by the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) on 25 and 26 March
2019 in Pretoria.
T
he summit opened with a call
for unity in “ensuring the right to
freedom and self-determination of
the people of the Western Sahara”.
The Conversation’s politics and
society editor, Thabo Leshilo, asked Frank
Mattheis, Senior Researcher in Global Studies,
University of Pretoria, for some perspective.
What is the issue? Why did Western
Sahara require a solidarity conference?
The Western Sahara is a disputed territory
in Northwest Africa. It is sparsely populated
and consists mainly of desert. Two parties
claim sovereignty of the territory. One is the
Moroccan Government, which considers it
a province with certain autonomous rights.
The other is the Polisario Front, a political
and military organisation that has proclaimed
the area as the Sahrawi Arab Democratic
Republic (SADR).
A referendum to choose between the two
options was proposed as far back as 1991. But
it’s never happened. This is mainly because of
disputes over who would be eligible to vote.
Negotiations between Morocco’s government
and the Polisaro Front have resulted in little

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  55
SADR was already an AU member (it remains
so today).
Since Morocco joined, the AU has held
back from playing a further role in the conflict.
Previously, its Peace and Security Council had
tried to intervene on the issue. This shows that
most African countries prefer to circumvent the
thorny issue of self-determination for Western
Sahara; instead, these countries are pursuing
closer ties with Morocco.
The SADC region, however, is home to
countries like Zimbabwe and South Africa.
They are among the Polisario Front’s most
faithful allies. They have sided with the SADR
because of how Morocco has handled the
Western Sahara’s status, which reminds them
of their own legacy of settler colonialism.
How long has the problem been brewing?
Since the late 19th century, when the territory
was colonised by Spain. When Spain
withdrew in 1975, a war broke out between
Morocco, Mauritania and the Polisario Front
over control of the Western Sahara.
Mauritania retreated after four years. But
fights between Morocco and the Polisario
Front (which was supported by Algeria)
continued all the way until 1991. Back then,
the UN established the Mission for the
Referendum in Western Sahara to oversee
a truce. No solution has been implemented
since. The current UN Personal Envoy for
Western Sahara, former German President
Horst Köhler, has struggled to make notable
progress.
The longer the conflict continues, the
more the power balance tilts in Morocco’s
favour. Economically and diplomatically, the
Kingdom of Morocco has been on the rise on
the continent. This offers tangible gains to its
allies and makes it ever more powerful.
Meanwhile, the Western Sahara’s
inhabitants are suffering. Human rights
progress since. The two parties officially
ceased their military operations in 1991, but
the situation remains fragile despite a United
Nations (UN) peacekeeping mission being
deployed to the Western Sahara since that
same year.
The solidarity conference hosted by SADC
can be seen as a reaction to the gradual shift
of power towards Morocco. In 2017, Morocco
joined the African Union (AU) after a 33-year
absence. It chose to stay away because the
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  55
violations are reportedly common. Protest
movements that support self-determination
are restricted and oppressed.
The level of reported violence has
diminished in recent years. That’s why the
issue of Western Sahara has gradually
disappeared from the international agenda.
What’s the significance of a declaration
from SADC?
The declaration issued at the end of the
conference confirms SADC’s long-standing
support for the Polisario Front.
While other African countries have
abandoned this position in favour of closer ties
with the economically strong Morocco, SADC
(and other countries such as Algeria) still follow
a value-driven foreign policy in this regard. The
declaration confirms that the AU remains split
on the matter.
However, the impact of the declaration is
limited to maintaining the issue on the agenda.
It is unlikely to have a direct impact on the
intended referendum, and the UN remains the
main body that can resolve the impasse.
It’s also worth noting that Morocco hosted a
parallel conference on the Western Sahara to
undermine SADC’s efforts. This just highlights
the divisions.
What would success look like?
Success from a SADC and SADR point of
view would entail the self-determination of the
Sahrawi people. But, it would still count as a
notable success if the SADC declaration marks
a reversal of the current trend that favours
Morocco’s diplomacy in Africa.
On a global level, success for the SADR
people could also mean forging stronger
alliances with other countries, such as the
European Union, for their self-declared
republic.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
The SADC region, however, is home to countries like Zimbabwe and South Africa. They are
among the Polisario Front’s most faithful allies. They have sided with the SADR because of
how Morocco has handled the Western Sahara’s status, which reminds them of their own
legacy of settler colonialism.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  56
DIPLOMACY | CeNtURy OF iNteRNatiONal Civil SeRviCe
T
he first time this particular breed of
professionals came into existence
was at the signing of the Versailles
Peace Conference during 1919
and the subsequent establishment
of the League of Nations in January 1920.
For global governance, an international
civil service matters. Simply because it would
be impossible to promote and maintain a
rules-based world order without it.
An autonomous civil service is crucial
for operations within the global governance
system – an idea conceptualised a 100 years
ago at the League of Nations. Already then,
international civil servants were expected to
be loyal to the aspirations of the international
community and to remain neutral and
independent of any authority outside their
organisation.
It’s a century since an international civil
service came into being. Why it matters
By Henning Melber
Extraordinary Professor, Department of Political Sciences, University of Pretoria
This year marks a century since a formal international civil
service was introduced into the world.
Eric Drummond, a British diplomat involved in
the drafting of the League of Nations Covenant
and the first Secretary-General of the League
of Nations (1919 – 1933), played a crucial
and pioneering role in conceptualising an
independent international civil service. But it
was Dag Hammarskjöld, the United Nations’
(UN) second Secretary-General (1953 – 1961),
who elaborated the concept. He set lasting
standards that survive to this day.
An independent civil service was a huge part
of Hammarskjöld’s arsenal. As his numerous
statements and speeches document, his terms
in office were guided by strong and coherent
ethics concerning the independence of the
international civil service.
At the core of his ethics were integrity,
loyalty to the principles of the UN Charter,
independence from any national or regional
interests and the courage to uphold these
values.
In my new book, I pay tribute to
Hammarskjöld’s commitment to these
principles as they applied to self-determination
on the African continent.
The main focus is on the interpretation and
implementation of the principles adopted by
the UN member states through his diplomacy
during the Cold War era. I present arguments
and evidence why frameworks for governance,
their interpretation and implementation matter.
the UN and decolonisation
Decolonisation on the African continent gained
momentum during the 1950s. The UN became
an important forum for the growing demands
for self-determination. As Secretary-General,
Hammarskjöld played a prominent role as events
unfolded. These culminated in the Congo crisis

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  57
of 1960/61. Faced with the secession of the
Katanga province and Belgian destabilisation
threats soon after independence, the
Congolese Government requested the UN to
intervene. This resulted in one of the biggest
UN interventions ever.
Hammarskjöld’s role in the process is at the
centre of the analysis. It examines the scope
and limitations his office provided under the
existing unequal power relations of the post-
World-War-II order.
His support for the struggles for national
sovereignty shows that individuals and their
running of office do matter. This is true even
though the policy of big powers imposes
limitations on them.
When Hammarskjöld and 15 others in
his company died in a plane crash near the
Northern Rhodesian mining town of Ndola
on the night of 17/18 September 1961, the
adjacent white settler-minority regimes were
visibly relieved. And despite the world-wide
recognition and appraisal, the secret services
of all big powers had closely followed his
attempts to bring the Katanga province back
into the Congolese territory.
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  57
An independent civil service was a huge part of Hammarskjöld’s
arsenal. As his numerous statements and speeches document,
his terms in office were guided by strong and coherent ethics
concerning the independence of the international civil service.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  58
Reassessing Hammarskjöld’s anti-hegemonic
stance suggests that there were more than
enough parties satisfied that he could not bring
his mission to the planned end. After all, the
secessionist Katanga province was under firm
control of Belgian and other Western mining
companies. It was the biggest supplier of
uranium for the United States nuclear arms
race. As a mineral-rich resource of global
relevance, it was of highest geo-strategic
interest.
The hitherto unclarified causes for the
plane crash remain a matter of renewed
investigations. These were triggered by
the book of Susan Williams, Who Killed
Hammarskjöld?.
Why global governance and leadership
matter
My book argues that despite all the limitations,
values matter for a global governance body
seeking to solve – or at least contain – conflicts
through multilateral diplomacy. It highlights the
battles over the power of definition by different
interest groups in the era of decolonisation and
the East-West conflict as well as the potential
role and influence of an individual in charge of
the UN Secretariat.
It recognises Hammarskjöld as an
outstanding international civil servant, who
believed in the spirit and word of the UN
Charter and the virtues of a service guided by
loyalty to its values and principles.
Individual leadership is important. But I also
emphasise the limitations such an office and
its incumbent have. The study also critically
reflects on some of the failures and flaws
during Hammarskjöld’s time as Secretary-
General. After all, while he set the bar very high
and remains widely respected, he was far from
unfailing.
Nevertheless, I argue, his term ended with
his integrity intact. This was evident from the
fact that towards the end of his time in office,
he was portrayed through a lens of suspicion
and mistrust in the West and open calls for
resignation in the East.
Revealingly so, the newly independent
states remained to a large extent supportive.
For them, he was “their” Secretary-General.
A hundred years after the creation of an
international civil service, Hammarskjöld
deserves to be remembered for leading by
example.
This article first appeared on The Conversation.
IT’S A CENTURY SINCE AN INTERNATIONAL CIVIL SERVICE CAME INTO BEING. WHY IT MATTERS

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
59

Diplomacy |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
60

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
61

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  62
A
s the 20th anniversary of the
landmark Resolution 1325
draws near, the discourse on
the involvement of meaning in
peace and security has shifted
from the basic focus on the numbers of women
included in peace processes to the degree of
women’s influence on peace negotiations and
the inclusion of their contributions in decision-
making and implementation processes. In
other words, the discussion has shifted from
counting women to making women count.
This emphasis on meaningful participation of
women has not only gained traction in policy
processes at the level of the United Nations
(UN) level, but has also trickled down to
deliberations in member states, advocacy
The Women Peace and Security
Agenda: Building bridges across the
Global North and South
By Faith Mabera
Senior Researcher, Institute for Global Dialogue associated with UNISA
As South Africa takes up its seat as a non-permanent
member of the UNSC for the period 2019 to 2020, the
position presents a strategic opportunity for the country to
build on its stated commitment to the WPS Agenda.
groups and civil-society organisations. Looking
at the seven UN Security Council (UNSC)
resolutions that make up the Women, Peace
and Security (WPS) Agenda alongside
Resolution 1325, the first six WPS resolutions
(1325, 1820, 1888, 1889, 1960 and 2106)
emphasised “full and equal participation” while
the two most recent WPS  resolutions (2122
and 2242) underscored women’s “meaningful
participation”.
A second key aspect of the progress
of the WPS Agenda in the past 18 years
is the alignment of the agenda with other
transformative frameworks in the UN system.
In 2015, the UN conducted a trio of high-level
reviews:  a review of UN peace operations, a
review of the UN peacebuilding architecture
and a review of the implementation of UNSC
Resolution 1325. There are several common
themes that cut across the reports of the
three reviews, including: the evolving nature
of conflict; the centrality of prevention; a focus
on inclusive, people-centred processes; and
the primacy of politics and more importantly,
the importance of the WPS Agenda for the
work of the UN in the sphere of peace and
security. The three reports, the Report of
the High-Level Independent Panel on UN
Peace Operations, the Report of the Advisory
Group of Experts for the 2015  Review of
the UN Peacebuilding Architecture and the
Global Study on the Implementation of UNSC
Resolution 1325 , also came at a critical
juncture of the UN’s work around peace,
THE WOMEN PEACE AND SECURITY AGENDA: BUILDING BRIDGES ACROSS THE GLOBAL NORTH AND SOUTH

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  63
security and development. The reviews
are a reflection of a paradigm shift within
the UN towards sustaining peace, which
encapsulates a conceptual and institutional
shift towards comprehensive, coordinated
and coherent approaches to peacebuilding
and peacekeeping.
The sustaining peace agenda is embodied
by twin resolutions adopted in 2015 – UNSC
Resolution 2282 and UN General Assembly
(UNGA) Resolution 70/262 – elaborating on
sustaining peace as both a goal and a process
to build a common vision of society, reinforce
the security-development nexus, build on
local ownership and increase involvement of
women and youth across all spheres of conflict
resolution and peacebuilding. Dovetailing
the sustainment of the peace agenda, the
Post-2015 Development Agenda, commonly
known as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, put forward 17 Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) aimed at
leaving no one behind in the eradication of
poverty and realising social, economic and
environmental well-being. SDG5 (Gender
Equality) and SDG16 (Peace, Justice and
Strong Institutions) are the most relevant
to the WPS Agenda given their focus on
promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for
sustainable development, providing access
to justice for all and building accountable and
inclusive institutions, respectively. As such,
the promotion of women’s rights towards
the realisation of peace and sustainable
development fundamentally hinges on
interlinkages between the WPS Agenda
and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, including a focus on the themes
of inclusion, justice and security.
Global diffusion of the WPS Agenda
Based on the fact that the WPS Agenda is
a universal framework, the implementation
of Resolution 1325 and its related UNSC
resolutions is a responsibility for both the
Global North and the Global South. Though
the institutional home of Resolution 1325
is located in auspices located in the Global
South, it is important to recall Namibia’s
championing role in the lead-up to the
unanimous adoption of Resolution 1325
in 2000. Namibia’s Minister of Women’s
Affairs, Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah, initiated
the resolution while Namibia was chairing
the UNSC. Upon its tabling, the resolution
garnered overwhelming support across
the board, including the political support of
other non-permanent UNSC members at the
time such as Jamaica and Canada. The UN
Development Fund for Women and the Non-
Governmental Organisation Working Group
on Women, Peace and Security were also
instrumental in the eventual adoption

THE WOMEN PEACE AND SECURITY AGENDA: BUILDING BRIDGES ACROSS THE GLOBAL NORTH AND SOUTH

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  64
Overall, the uptake of the WPS Agenda and its constitutive resolutions by
countries across the global North-South divide is highly indicative of the collective,
multidimensional impact and effectiveness of the rallying call for a gender-sensitive
approach to peace and security and conflict prevention and resolution.
of the resolution. The drafting and adoption
of Resolution 1325 is a testament to the
universal appeal and collective, multifaceted
action central to its global diffusion and
implementation.
In the aftermath of the adoption of
Resolution 1325, national action plans
(NAPs) were put forward as the main tools
of implementation of the WPS Agenda.
The NAPs are aimed at operationalising
the international policy framework of the
WPS Agenda, specifi  cally Resolution 1325,
and subsequent resolutions into tangible,
domestic strategies with targeted national
and local objectives. Furthermore, NAPs
have taken different forms and modes across
regions and countries. For instance, some
countries stipulate gender commitments
across different government departments
while others prioritise the development of
indicators monitoring various aspects of the
WPS Agenda at national level. There are also
regional action plans linked to regional and
intergovernmental institutions such as the
European Union, the Pacifi  c Islands Forum,
the Organisation for Security and Cooperation
in Europe and the African Union (AU).
Pertinent to the AU, a Continental Results-
Based Framework not only tracks progress
made by member states on commitments to
gender equality and promotion of women’s
rights, but also serves as an instrument for
self-assessment of member states while
providing for constructive engagement with a
range of domestic stakeholders.
By December 2018, 79 countries had
NAPs, of which 22 were African states. The
adoption of NAPs as from 2005 onwards can
be attributed to a number of factors such as:
•  advocacy initiatives by transnational
networks and civil-society groups
•  the presence of women in key positions
of authority such as Parliament and the
Executive
•  the alignment of national policies with
regional initiatives in support of the WPS
Agenda
•  “period effects” which saw over 26
countries adopting NAPs around the 10th
and 15th anniversary of Resolution 1325.
From a global diffusion perspective, NAPs
have not been implemented by only
countries of the Global North but have also
been embraced by countries in the Global
South, including confl  ict-affected and least
developed countries.
In addition to the adoption of NAPs, the
Global South has also demonstrated agency
and ownership over Resolution 1325 by its
contribution to UN peacekeeping. The top
troop-contributing countries are located in
the Global South, demonstrating the growing
engagement and agency of these countries in
the evolution and shaping of  global policy and
normative frameworks. Overall, the uptake
of the WPS Agenda and its constitutive
resolutions by countries across the global
North-South divide is highly indicative of
the collective, multidimensional impact and
effectiveness of the rallying call for a gender-
sensitive approach to peace and security and
confl  ict prevention and resolution.
The 2015 Global Study on the
Implementation of Resolution 1325 revealed
persistent implementation gaps and highly
uneven progress of the WPS Agenda. The
challenges include structural inequalities that
impede the meaningful participation of women
in decision-making and peace processes; a
lack of resources; shrinking political space for
women’s rights advocates; and the changing
nature of confl  ict, becoming more protracted
and taking on violent extremist and terrorist
forms. These implementation obstacles mean
accelerated action for the implementation
of the WPS Agenda must include collective
initiatives to disarm violence, break down
persistent patriarchal power structures and
leverage women’s leadership as crucial
agents of positive peace and sustainable
development.
South Africa’s role as champion of the
WPS Agenda
As South Africa takes up its seat as a non-
permanent member of the UNSC for the
period 2019 to 2020, the position presents a
strategic opportunity for the country to build
on its stated commitment to the WPS Agenda.
Accordingly, South Africa should work closely
with the Informal Expert Group (IEG) on WPS,
which is mandated to coordinate action on the
WPS Agenda on the UNSC programme of
work. Such systematic coordination involves
collaboration with thematic experts and
specifi  c country-level analysis, highlighting
the gender dimensions of country situations
under debate. For instance, in 2018, the IEG
reviewed the situations in the Lake Chad
Basin, Libya, Yemen, Iraq, the Democratic
Republic of Congo and the Central African
Republic.
THE WOMEN PEACE AND SECURITY AGENDA
Finally, heeding the call for sustained
momentum in the political will and support
for the WPS Agenda across all levels, South
Africa should advance the work of the WPS
Focal Points Network (WSP-FPN).
Launched in 2016 by the Government of
Spain, the WPS-FPN is a cross-regional forum
for member states and regional organisations,
which collaborates with UN agencies and
civil society to share experiences and best
practices in advancing the implementation of
UNSC resolutions on WPS.
UN Women serves as the secretariat of
the network, which currently comprises over
80 members. Namibia took up the Chair of the
FPN in 2019 under the theme: “Women, Peace
and Security: Towards Full Participation” and
the sub-theme: “Mainstreaming the WPS
Agenda in the Programmes of Regional
Economic Communities”.
South Africa’s commitment to the WPS
Agenda is fully in tandem with its foreign
policy priorities of promoting regional and
multilateral initiatives as well as its rich history
of engagement and peace diplomacy across
the African continent, including peacemaking,
multilateral peacekeeping and post-confl  ict
reconstruction and development.

| Diplomacy
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
65

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  66
S
ince 2017, Nomzamo Mbatha
has worked in close cooperation
with the UNHCR as a high-
profi  le supporter and advocate
for UNHCR’s LuQuLuQu
South Africans appointed UNHCR
goodwill ambassadors
In January 2019, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR)
announced the appointment of South African actress
and human rights activist, Nomzamo Mbatha, and media
personality, Leanne Manas, as goodwill ambassadors.
Campaign, raising awareness for the forcibly
displaced in Africa.
Mbatha’s engagement includes visits
to experience UNHCR’s life-saving work in
camps and settlements in Malawi, Kenya
and South Sudan. She also hosted the 2018
Nansen Refugee Award
Ceremony, which honoured
South Sudanese humanitarian
Dr Evan Atar, and spoke at
TEDxKakumaCamp, the
fi  rst-ever TEDx event to be
hosted in a refugee camp.
In her talk, she refl  ected on
how her deep attachment to
helping refugees, particularly
women and children, is rooted
in her personal life story of
overcoming adversity.
“The strength of refugees,
their ability to persevere
and their ingenuity for
making the best of a diffi  cult
situation is what I celebrate.
Being named a Goodwill Ambassador is an
incredible honour and I can’t wait to embark
on this journey, learn more and use my voice
to truly be an agent of change,” said Mbatha.
“It is with great delight that we welcome
Nomzamo Mbatha to the UNHCR family,”
UNHCR High Commissioner, Filippo Grandi,
said. “She has shown tireless commitment to
shining a light on refugee situations across
Africa and I look forward to seeing her inspire
many more people in this new role.”
Mbatha’s appointment came at a time
when war, confl  ict and persecution had forced
over 68 million people to fl  ee their homes – the
highest level of displacement ever recorded.
Over 25 million of these are refugees, with
Sub-Saharan Africa hosting over 31% of the
global refugee population.
Leanne Manas is a renowned leader on
the South African media circuit as the anchor
of the South African Broadcasting Service’s
fl  agship news show, Morning Live. The show
is broadcasted live every weekday morning to
millions of viewers.

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  67
In addition to being an award-winning TV
presenter, Manas is also a radio host, MC and
style icon. She was appointed as a UNHCR
Goodwill Ambassador in January 2019.
Manas is strongly committed to supporting
UNHCR’s work through the LuQuLuQu
Campaign, and believes that we have a
responsibility as members of the human race
SOUTH AFRICANS APPOINTED UNHCR GOODWILL AMBASSADORS
i
Actress and TV personality Nomzamo Mbatha bagged yet another international award in March 2019.
The International Women of Power (IWOP) Awards honoured Isibaya actress Mbatha with the Goddess Beauty Award for her contribution to
the entertainment industry.
According to the Diaspora Dialogues, who are the organisers of the ceremony, the IWOP Awards seek to “honour and celebrate the extraordinary
accomplishments of global women who are trailblazers and trendsetters inspiring black girls and women”.
Mbatha was the perfect candidate for this award because she is well-known for her humanitarian work as she took on the role as the newest
Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in January 2019.
The actress attended the ceremony at the Marina del Rey Marriott in Los Angeles, California, on 9 March 2019.
She took to Instagram to express how surreal the whole experience felt.
“And so here she is with dust on her feet knowing both victory and defeat, still standing. Still here. There are moments in my life when I want to
pinch myself. Is this real? Is this real? Oh my God ... it is. Yesterday I received an International Women of Power Award and I am so grateful and
honoured. Thank you to Diaspora Dialogues for my Goddess Beauty Award,” the 28-year-old actress said.
Other winners included comedienne Tiffany Haddish, who bagged the Entertainment Roar Award, as well as the fi  rst lady of Sierra Leone,
Fatima Maada Bio, who walked away with the Warrior Award.
  www.news24.com
to help those who have the greatest need.
In her role as a high-profi  le supporter for the
LuQuLuQu Campaign, Manas visited the
largest refugee camps in Kenya and Malawi.
Through both trips, she gained a better
understanding of UNHCR and its partners’
skills development programmes for refugees,
and she conducted fi  ve live broadcasts from
the refugee camps to millions of Morning
Live viewers. Refugee guests on the show
included young coders from the Microsoft App
Factory in Malawi’s Dzaleka Refugee Camp,
Jesuit Worldwide Learning degree candidates
from the Arrupe Learning Centre as well as
talented musicians and dancers from the
camps’ vibrant arts and culture scene.
“The strength of refugees, their ability to persevere and their ingenuity for making the
best of a difficult situation is what I celebrate. Being named a Goodwill Ambassador
is an incredible honour and I can’t wait to embark on this journey, learn more and use
my voice to truly be an agent of change,” said Mbatha.
Manas is strongly committed to supporting UNHCR’s work through the LuQuLuQu
Campaign, and believes that we have a responsibility as members of the human race
to help those who have the greatest need.

DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  68
O
On 16 June 2019, our
country commemorated the
43rd anniversary of the 1976
Youth Uprising.
After the banning of the
African National Congress (ANC) in 1960 and
our leadership exiled and imprisoned, the anti-
apartheid movement was on the backfoot after
a decade of mass defiance.
Some historians argue that for the next
decade an “interregnum of contest and
paralysis” existed in the anti-apartheid
We must be proud of our past and
confident about the future
By Alvin Botes
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Our youth must gain the right skills and expertise to grow
and create a competitive and inclusive economy with shared
prosperity. Youth must prepare themselves for the new world
of work.
movement while it was left to President OR
Tambo to pedantically rebuild the ANC.
Thus, the impact of 16 June 1976 was
the culmination of more than a decade of
frustration that exploded.
Since that fateful day, the defiance to
apartheid was re-awoken and our fight became
continuous, persistence and unbroken for the
next 22 years with new generations joining
the struggle until the dawn of democracy on
27 April 1994.
Youth participated in all four pillars of
struggle, namely mass mobilisation, armed
struggle, the underground and international
solidarity.
The youth of ‘76, like the generations before
them, fully understood their generational
mission, that “out of relative obscurity, discover
its mission, fulfil it, or betray it”.
They developed the skills and expertise to
fight the apartheid government and acted upon
it with a clarity of purpose.
The generations of Solomon Mahlangu,
Peter Mokaba, Ronnie Mamoepa, Collene
Williams and Dipuo Peters continued with
the struggle to end apartheid and build a
WE MUST BE PROUD OF OUR PAST AND CONFIDENT ABOUT THE FUTURE

| DIPLOMACY
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  69
developmental democracy that is united, non-
racial and non-sexist.
As we begin the journey of the next 25
years of our struggle, the youth of today must
ask the question: What is there generational
mission?
To answer this question, we first need to
understand the challenges and opportunities
that we have been confronted with over the
past decade.
Today, our world is changing at a pace
faster than ever before; the geopolitical,
economic, environmental and technological
space has undergone tectonic shifts.
We began the decade with the so-called
‘’Arab Spring’’ that shook parts of North Africa
and the Middle East.
Democratic euphoria swept across much of
the developing South with peaceful transitions
to democracy in countries such as the Comoros
and Madagascar, among others. We have had
numerous examples of peaceful resolution to
conflicts both on the continent and beyond.
 Equally, as we near the end of this
decade, we are witnessing revolutions and
counter-revolutions. Globally, there has
been an increase in extremism terrorism,
religious fundamentalism, populist right-wing
nationalism, neo-fascism, xenophobia and
racism in both the developed and developing
world.
The era of coups, wars and super power
interference in the sovereignty of nations as
well as the rise of strong men and women has
reared its ugly head again.
There are several high- and low-intensity
wars taking place across several continents,
including in the Middle East in Yemen, Syria
and Iraq as well as in Africa.
Wars are being fought both along traditional
lines as well as the newer asymmetrical tactics
of war by proxy (such as in Syria), cyber wars
and robust trade wars between the traditional
superpowers such as the United States
and Russia (multipolarity) as well the newer
emerging super power China (tripolarity).
As we near the end of this decade, our
triple challenges of poverty, inequality and
unemployment are increasing globally,
continentally and within South Africa. The
historical multilateral international rules-based
order is under threat.
Unemployment is at 27.6% in South Africa
of which jobless youth account for 63.4%
thereof (StatsSA, 2019). Ordinarily, South
Africa was supposed to harvest the benefits
from the continental youth bulge, in the context
of a thriving African economy.
However, the World Bank (2011) indicated
that intra-continental trade in Africa remained
uninspiring at 11%, while between South Africa
and the rest of the continent it was at 22%,
with the balance of trade being mainly with the
rest of the developed world. This is a complete
antithesis of a development trajectory, which
should underpin the economic outlook of
Africa’s 54 states.
What is to be done?
The best way to preserve the legacy of the
class of ‘76 is for our youth of today to fully
understand their generational mission of
how to address all these aforementioned
challenges in our country, region, continent
and globally.
Our youth must gain the right skills and
expertise to grow and create a competitive
and inclusive economy with shared prosperity.
Youth must prepare themselves for the new
world of work.
Subjects such as Coding should be become
a compulsory third subject taught at primary
school level rather than an individual subject
at tertiary level.
As we rebuild Africa, we will require a
nation of engineers, software programmers,
builders, architects, quantity surveyors,
mechanics, plumbers, electricians, doctors
and entrepreneurs to mention but few. Our
youth need the skills to become “glocal’’ (global
and local) citizens i.e. the ability to work both
locally and abroad while remaining committed
to our national democratic agenda.
 Equally, the youth require not only the
hard technical skills to make our country and
continent a success but they must develop
an understanding of and a commitment to
becoming patriots, international solidarity
activists, cadres and ambassadors for the
developing world.
South Africa remains a shining example of
peaceful transitions of divided nations and our
youth must continue with this legacy.
As a country, our youth must grasp the
opportunities of continuous further education
and training made available through our
policies such as the National Student Financial
Aid Scheme to attend tertiary institutions.
To undermine joblessness, implies that
learning should become a lifelong experience.
Youth must also grasp the opportunities
made available through the work of the
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation, to further their studies by
obtaining scholarships to study abroad and
participate in international internships and
exchange programmes.
This is a decisive intervention and we must
toil tirelessly to ensure that we expose 20 000
South African young people to the international
arena of solidarity, in which the acquisition of
high skills will be possible, and a heightened
“consciousness, as a product of development”
(Engels).
President Cyril Ramaphosa has been
instructive that “too many of our people do
not work, especially the youth”; that we must
maximise the value of the new, heightened
technological innovations.
WE MUST BE PROUD OF OUR PAST AND CONFIDENT ABOUT THE FUTURE

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  78
Liberation heritage:
 Billy Modise
In June 2018, South Africa’s former Chief of
State Protocol and recipient of the National
Order of Luthuli, Ambassador Billy Modise,
passed away in hospital after a long illness.
He was 87.
President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “Our
country and our people have suffered a
great loss in the passing of Ambassador Billy
Modise. He served his country selflessly and
diligently. He was a distinguished gentleman
and leader of our people who contributed
exceptionally to the achievement of a South
Africa free of racial oppression and to the
building of a non-racial, non-sexist and
democratic country. We wish to convey our
deepest words of condolence to his family,
friends and relatives as well as members of
the Diplomatic Corps. May his soul rest in
peace.”
President Ramaphosa declared a Special
Official Funeral Category 1 for Ambassador
Modise, which entailed elements of military
ceremonial honours and is proclaimed, in
line with The Presidency’s State, Official and
Provincial Official Funeral Policy, for persons
of extraordinary credentials specifically
designated by the President of the Republic
of South Africa.
Paying tribute to Ambassador Modise
during a memorial service held at the
OR Tambo Building in Pretoria, the former
Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said that as
Chief of State Protocol, Ambassador Modise
effortlessly enhanced the prestige and
standing of South Africa to great eminence.
“In him, other countries saw a South Africa
that was confident without being arrogant.
“A country that exhibited a true spirit of
humanity and which was a natural ally for
a world that must attain peace, stability,
democracy and prosperity for all its citizens.
“Ambassador Modise’s personality and
character were well suited to his diplomatic
calling. A gentleman par
excellence, who combined the
rare traits of a skilful negotiator
with those of an astute activist.
A diligent man with the master’s
touch. A Picasso in the art of
diplomacy with his gentle hand.
“A humanist, an
internationalist, a devout father
and a loving husband. He was
an all-in-one, extremely gifted
and yet so humble.
“Uncle Billy was one of a
galaxy of stars who played
a key role in the evolution of
our foreign policy under the
overall guidance of OR Tambo.
Led by Johny Makhathini and
later Thabo Mbeki, this team
orchestrated the isolation of
apartheid South Africa, its

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  79
expulsion from the United Nations (UN)
and the declaration of apartheid as a crime
against humanity. Even though, by his own
admission, he struggled with the resort to
arms, Uncle Billy was nonetheless at all
times always guided by a firm understanding
of the complex interaction and the mutually
supportive nature of the four pillars of our
struggle for liberation.”
Billy Modise was born on 8 December 1930
in Bloemfontein, Orange Free State (now
Free State province). He received an Anglican
scholarship, which enabled him to enrol for
his secondary schooling in Modeerport. The
racial discrimination imposed by apartheid
and his personal experiences of racism
served as a political awakening for Modise.
In January 1955, he enrolled at the
University of Fort Hare to study Medicine. It
was while he was on his way to Fort Hare
that he resolved to join the African National
Congress (ANC).
While at Fort Hare, he contracted
tuberculosis and was admitted to hospital
for six months. As a student at Fort Hare, he
came into contact with Professor ZK Mathews
and Govan Mbeki who inspired him to
become politically active. He was elected as
secretary of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL)
for the Fort Hare branch, and later served
as secretary of the Student Representative
Council. Modise also became a member of
the National Union of South African Students
(NUSAS), serving as an executive member.
In January 1960, he was asked by NUSAS
to attend a conference in Switzerland. He
declined, fearing that applying for a passport
would result in his arrest. The ANC advised
him to leave the country. At the same time,
the Lund University Students Union in
Sweden offered him a scholarship to go
abroad and study Medicine. Subsequently,
a ticket for his travel from Accra, Ghana,
to London was organised by the British
Students Union. He then left the country for
Bechuanaland (now Botswana), where he
boarded a chartered flight that transported
South African ANC refugees from the then-
Bechuanaland to Accra. He missed his flight
and had to find a way to Tanzania where met
Barbro Johansson, a Swedish missionary
who facilitated the transfer of his ticket from
Ghana to Tanzania.
While studying at Lund in Sweden,
he began mobilising university student
formations against apartheid and networking
on behalf of the ANC. He was a founder
member of the South Africa Committee in
Lund alongside Lars-Erik Johansson and Ulf
Agrell. Due to the demands of political work,
he gave up studying Medicine and switched
to Sociology. Modise met students from other
liberation movements in Africa who were
also studying at Lund, resulting in his work
extending to cover liberation movements from
across southern Africa.
In 1966, the ANC Youth and Student
Section (ANC YSS) was formed with Thabo
Mbeki as leader in Britain. The ANC YSS had
two main objectives: looking after the welfare
of the ANC youth and mobilising youth against
apartheid internationally. ANC YSS leaders
would later play critical roles in the country’s
transition to a democracy.
In 1975, Modise went to New York to
work for Habitat, the UN Conference on
Human Settlements. His role was preparing
policy papers on issues of resettlement.
Between 1976 and 1988, he worked as
Assistant Director of the UN Institute for
Namibia in Lusaka, Zambia, where he worked
closely with Namibians, providing training in
political science, sociology and education.
In 1988, he left the UN to work fulltime for
the ANC. Subsequently, he was deployed in
Sweden where he served as the ANC’s chief
representative.
Modise returned to South Africa in 1991
and was deployed at Shell House, the ANC
headquarters. He was tasked with heading
the Matla Trust, which was established to
prepare for the 1994 elections. After the first
democratic elections, Modise was posted as
South Africa’s High Commissioner to Canada
in 1995. He also served as the Chief of State
Protocol from 1999 to 2006.
In 2008, Ambassador Modise received the
Order of Luthuli – Silver Class from former
President Mbeki for his excellent contribution
to the achievement of a South Africa free
of racial oppression and contributing to
the building of a non-racial, non-sexist and
democratic South Africa. He also received the
Premier’s Excellence Award from the Premier
of the Free State for his contribution towards
the liberation struggle and South Africa in
general. In 2017, Modise was bestowed
the Swedish Order of the Polar Star by the
Swedish Ambassador to South Africa. Modise
was a member of the African Centre for the
Constructive Resolution of Disputes Board of
Trustees from 2007 until his passing on 20
June 2018.
www.sahistory.org.za
LIBERATION HERITAGE: BILLY MODISE

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  80
2019 National Orders reﬂect
SA’s silver jubilee
T
hese were the words of President
Cyril Ramaphosa as he awarded
the six National Orders to
distinguished South Africans
and eminent foreign nationals on
Thursday, 25 April 2019.
The six National Orders are the Order of
Mendi for Bravery, the Order of Ikhamanga,
the Order of the Baobab, the Order of Luthuli,
the Order of Mapungubwe and the Order of
the Companions of OR Tambo.
The orders are the highest awards that the
country, through the President, bestows on
citizens and eminent foreign nationals who
have contributed towards the advancement of
democracy and who made a significant impact
on improving the lives of South Africans.
The awards took place at the Sefako
Makgatho Presidential Guesthouse in
Pretoria in an investiture ceremony led by the
President as the grand patron of the awards.
“We have among us today the very best
of such citizens. You have gained recognition
for your dedication to personal, professional
and other improvement; to putting yourselves
at the service of your country; and for your
willingness to do your part to make South Africa
a better place,” said President Ramaphosa.
The Order of Luthuli is awarded to South
Africans who have made a meaningful
contribution to the struggle for democracy,
human rights, nation-building, peace and
conflict resolution.
It symbolises the vision of the late Chief
Albert Luthuli – the legendary liberation
struggle leader and the first African recipient of
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1961.
The Order of Mapungubwe is awarded to
South African citizens for achievements that
have impacted internationally and served the
interests of the Republic of South Africa.
The Order of the Baobab is awarded to
South African citizens for distinguished service
in the fields of business, the economy, science,
technological innovation and community
service.
South African citizens who have excelled
in the fields of arts, culture, literature, music,
journalism and sport are awarded the Order of
the Ikhamanga.
The Order of the Mendi is awarded to South
Africans who have performed an extraordinary
act of bravery that placed their lives in great
“A member of society merely exists. A citizen embraces the concept of
civic virtue – of dedication to the common welfare of their community
and their country.”
danger, or who lost their own lives in trying to
save the life of another person, or by saving
property.
Foreign nationals and other foreign
dignitaries are also honoured through the
Order of the Companions of OR Tambo.
The award is bestowed for friendship
shown to South Africa. It is therefore an order
of peace, cooperation and active expression of
solidarity and support.
Each order is awarded either in Platinum,
Gold, Silver or Bronze.
As 2019 marks the 25th investiture
ceremony since the introduction of the new
orders, Director-General (DG) Cassius Lubisi
in The Presdency, who is the Chancellor of the
National Orders, explained that the National
Orders were not a new concept.
“The National Orders, are not new, even
the apartheid regime had the orders but they
might not have called them that but they did
recognise citizens at that time,” said DG Lubisi.
When President Nelson Mandela assumed
office in 1994, he continued with the old orders
such as the Order of Good Hope.

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  81
A decision was later taken to transform the
National Orders from those old orders of
apartheid to new orders.
“This then introduced the new orders that
we give now such as the Order of Mendi,
Ikhamanga, Mapungubuwe, Baobab, Luthuli
and the Order of the Companions of OR
Tambo,” said DG Lubisi.
This year’s investiture ceremony came
as South Africa is celebrating 25 years of
democracy.
“The significance this year of course is that
a silver jubilee, which is what 25 years is, is a
critical milestone for any celebration of periods
of time.
“It is our first such big celebration and the
National Orders hope to reflect such strides
that we have made. If you look at the types
of people who are being honoured,” said DG
Lubisi.
While the five National Orders recognise
South African citizens, the Order of
Companions of OR Tambo recognises foreign
nationals and their contributions.
“South Africa like other countries is not an
island. The importance of people-to-people
relations is what makes the international
relations system to tick.
“During our struggle, many of our people
left our country and went into exile where they
were supported with shelter, clothes, food and
in some instances with arms.
“International friends made huge risks so
the notion of the OR Tambo arises from that
history.
“Oliver Tambo single-handedly led the
international isolation of South Africa. He was
the prime diplomat the Republic of South Africa
has ever seen.”
The Order of Companions of OR Tambo also
recognises individuals who champion ideals
that South Africa stands for.
“There will come a time when those of us
who were in the struggle will no longer be
around and that does not mean the Order of
Companions of OR Tambo will cease to exist. It
will exist but it will exist to recognise the friends
who support South Africa in any manner,” said
DG Lubisi.
The 2019 recipients were:
The Order of Mendi for Bravery (Silver)
Thapelo Tambani (Posthumous): For his
selfless act of saving another life, which led
to his unfortunate demise. His courageous
act remains as his legacy to all who knew him
and got to know of him after his courageous
sacrifice.
The Order of Ikhamanga (Silver)
Achmat Davids (Posthumous): For his
excellent contribution to the field of literature and
the preservation of history through storytelling.
His body of works enriched our understanding
of the Cape Muslims’ contribution to the
development of the Afrikaans language.
Jacques Henry Kallis: For his excellent
contribution to the sport of cricket and for
placing South Africa on the world sporting
map with his brilliance. His stellar career and
commitment to the sport inspired many young
people to aim for excellence.
yvonne Chaka Chaka Mhinga: For her
excellent contribution to the field of music and
her general contribution to social cohesion.
Her melodic voice reverberated and found
resonance in many parts of our continent and
the world.
Nomhle Nkonyeni: For her brilliant
contribution to the performing arts. Over
many decades, she has shown durability and
adaptability. She has graced the national and
international stages and her mastery of her
craft has moved many audiences locally and
around the world.
Benjamin Pogrund: For his excellent
contribution to the field of journalism and to
scholarship on the liberation struggle. His
informative writing shone the light on our
country during some of the darkest days in our
history. He defied those who would deceive the
world.
Mathatha Tsedu: For his excellent contribution
to South African journalism and to journalism
on the African continent, as well as his selfless
contribution to the liberation of our country and
continent. His mighty pen continues to be his
weapon in the building of our democracy.
Mary Mhlongo Twala: For her excellent
contribution to the performing arts and
creatively raising awareness on women’s
health issues through storytelling. Her sense
of humour and humility on and off stage have
endeared her to the nation at large.
The Order of Ikhamanga (Gold)
Johaar Mosaval: For his exceptional
contribution to the performing arts, particularly
ballet dancing. His exceptional talent led him
to be the first black South African to become a
senior principal dancer at the Royal Ballet.
2019 NATIONAL ORDERS REFLECT SA’S SILVER JUBILEE

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  82
The Order of the Baobab (Silver)
Braam Jordaan: For his brilliant efforts at
raising awareness on the importance of
Sign Language and the human rights of deaf
people around the world through his colourful
spectrum of films and books.
Constance Mirriam Thokozile Koza
(Posthumous): For her excellent contribution
and consistent commitment to education and
community development. Her selfless giving to
society enriched and empowered many lives.
Bongani Donald Mkhwanazi (Posthumous):
For his excellent contribution to the upliftment
of black business. He was a doyen of black
business and one of the foremost champions of
the economic transformation of post-apartheid
South Africa. His efforts had a commendable
effect on social cohesion.
Ray and Dora Phillips (Posthumous): For
their excellent contribution to the creation
of the first social work network designed to
improve the terrible living conditions of the
growing population of the oppressed that were
being brought to the Rand to work in the mines
in the early 20th century.
William Smith: For his superb contribution
to the teaching and demystification of
mathematics and science. Through the
medium of television, he made mathematics
and science accessible even to the most
marginalised in our society.
 The Order of Luthuli (Silver)
Velaphi Msane: For his excellent contribution
to the liberation struggle and for his steadfast
conviction in the equality of all. His courage
allowed him to put his people first, with scant
regard for his own safety. He left his loved ones
behind to fight for not just South Africans, but
for all of humanity.
Thandi Lujabe-Rankoe: For her excellent
contribution to fight for the liberation of the
people of South Africa. She did outstanding
work in raising awareness on repression in
South Africa and mobilised support for those
who were facing the apartheid security forces
inside South Africa on a daily basis.
Antony Andrew Trew: For his excellent
contribution to the attainment of democracy
and to the reconstruction of a post-apartheid
society. His linguistic prowess and meticulous
application of language are imprinted in many
dossiers of government where he served
tirelessly and loyally.
Moyisile Douglas Tyutyu: For his shining
contribution to the fight for the freedom of all
South Africans. As an underground operative
of Umkhonto we Sizwe, he proved to be a man
of courage, living by his conviction that all are
equal. He continues to be the fount of wisdom
for young activists.
yosuf (Joe) veriava: For his brilliant
contribution to the medical profession in
South Africa. He has consistently personified
medical ethics and progressiveness. He also
courageously pushed back the frontiers of the
unjust and repressive laws of apartheid.
The Order of Mapungubwe (Bronze)
Thokozani Majozi: For his outstanding
contribution to science, particularly the
development of a novel mathematical technique
for near-zero-effluent batch chemical facilities,
which enables the re-use of wastewater. As a
young scientist, more trailblazing is expected
of him in the years ahead.
The Order of Mapungubwe (Silver)
Malik Maaza: For his outstanding contribution
to the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology.
He is a pioneer on the African continent. His
work has improved our knowledge and made
headway in the development of cutting-edge
modern technology.
Ari Sitas: For his excellent contribution to
social science scholarship and progressive
policymaking. He is also a renowned storyteller
and poet. He is a multitalented social scientist
who moves effortlessly between profound
knowledge production and the arts.
The Order of Mapungubwe (Gold)
Bomo Edna Edith Molewa (Posthumous): For
her exceptional contribution to the fight to save
our planet. Having served her country during
the liberation struggle, she immersed herself
in the global efforts to mitigate the effects of
climate change on the planet. Through her
tireless efforts, South Africa is recognised
as one of the global leaders in matters of
environment of justice.
The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo
(Bronze)
Riccardo Sarra (Italy): For his consistent
contribution to the fight for the liberation of the
people of South Africa and the southern African
region. He has nurtured and encouraged
cooperation between Italian and South African
institutions over a long period.
The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo
(Silver)
Klaas de Jonge (The Netherlands): For
his excellent contribution to the fight for the
liberation of the people of South Africa. With
little regard for his own life, he became part
of the armed resistance to apartheid. He
demonstrated his commitment to South Africa
by continuing to be part of the democratic
project after the historic 1994 elections.
Khotso Makhulu (United Kingdom): For
his courageous contribution to the fight for
liberation. He followed his calling and lived the
ideals of lending a helping hand to his fellow
human beings. He provided refuge, comfort
and family to young activists arriving in exile to
join the South African liberation struggle.
Paulette Pierson-Mathy (Belgium): For her
outstanding and insightful contributions to the
struggle for liberation. She has been a prolific
author of original reports and publications,
providing deep insights into the realities of
apartheid and the struggle for liberation in
Africa and southern Africa in particular.
Amii Omara-Otunnu (Uganda): For his
excellent contribution to the global fight for
democracy and social justice. He has been
a reliable tried and tested friend of South
Africa. He is well-known for his efforts to
build international partnerships between
our academic institutions and those in other
countries.
Lucia Raadschelders (Posthumous) (The
Netherlands): For her outstanding contribution
to the struggle against apartheid. Over many
years, she was a reliable friend of our country
and, post-liberation, she continued to play a
critical role in supporting our democracy and
archiving our history of the struggle.
The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo
(Gold)
His Excellency Admiral Didier Ignace
Ratsiraka (Madagascar): For his outstanding
contribution to the struggle for democracy
in South Africa. He offered the liberation
movement a national and international platform
through his country’s national television and
radio station to operate Radio Freedom in the
battle of ideas between apartheid propaganda
and non-racial democratic values.
SAnews.gov.za / The Presidency
2019 NATIONAL ORDERS REFLECT SA’S SILVER JUBILEE

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
83

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  84
Build Smart,
Innovate for Change”
FEATURE
 |
Build Smart,
Innovate for Change”
A
t a time when innovation is
dominant, shaping and changing
the way people live in every
part of the world, we have to
be intentional about its use to
positively impact the lives of women and girls.
That means making sure they are not only
consumers of innovation, but take their place
as innovators. With their engagement, both
design and execution of solutions can address
the unique needs of women and girls, from the
creation of decent work to delivery of products,
services and infrastructure for women in all
walks of life. This year’s theme for International
Women’s Day, “Think Equal, Build Smart,
By Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka
United Nations Under-Secretary-General and Executive Director of UN Women
Innovate for Change”, puts innovation at
the centre of efforts to refl  ect the needs and
viewpoints of women and girls and to resolve
barriers to public services and opportunities.
Remoteness need no longer be an exclusion
issue when mobile money technology and
digital payments can deliver social benefi  ts
to even the most remote households. Lack of
roads needs not prevent life-saving medication
from reaching patients, with smart inventions
like 15-year old Nigerian Eno Ekanem’s drone
to make drops to rural areas, controlled by
SMS messaging.
Lack of electric light did not stop midwife
Lorina Karway from delivering babies at night
This year’s theme for International Women’s Day, “Think
Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change,” puts innovation at
the centre of efforts to reflect the needs and viewpoints of
women and girls and to resolve barriers to public services
and opportunities.
in remote parts of Liberia; she improvised
using her phone light. Now however, simple,
low-cost solar lamps made by women have
brought a creative, sustainable solution to
Lorina, and to multiple health centres and
individual homes that previously lacked
access to energy infrastructure. This important
invention that jumpstarts access to modern
renewable energy can be further developed to
be even easier to handle and use.
Women’s fresh, relevant thinking also
brings transformative change to large-scale
infrastructure, both virtual and physical. Our
Buy from Women Enterprise Platform uses
mobile technology to connect women farmers
“THINK EQUAL, BUILD SMART, INNOVATE FOR CHANGE”

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  85
Build Smart,
Innovate for Change”
“THINK EQUAL, BUILD SMART, INNOVATE FOR CHANGE”
and cooperatives to information, fi  nance
and markets, optimising the supply chain for
women.
The large “Senergy” solar-power project
in Dakar, Senegal, drew on women’s views in
development, bringing shared benefi  ts such as
upgrades to the local school, the funding of a
microcredit association to promote women’s
businesses in the local area, and premises for
a maternity unit.
Syrian architect Marwa al-Sabouni’s award-
winning vision for the redevelopment of the
razed district of Baba Amr, Homs, includes
ways to restore cooperation, social cohesion
and a sense of identity after the devastation
of war.
Innovation and technology refl  ect their
designers and makers.
Knowing that algorithms increasingly
determine selection and response, we need
to react to the growing evidence that women
have been routinely left out of the data on
which decisions are made.
“Big data” is only a reliable support for
decision-making if it draws on a pool of
unbiased information.
Groups that are underrepresented and
marginalised based on their race, ethnicity,
sexual orientation or socio-economic status
also need to have the opportunity to create and
provide feedback on what is created by others.
This might be urban planning that designs for
commuter or pedestrian safety with simple
measures like better lighting and walkways
i
International Women’s Day 2019
The theme for International Women’s Day,
8 March 2019, “Think Equal, Build Smart,
Innovate for Change”, puts innovation by
women and girls, for women and girls, at the
heart of efforts to achieve gender equality.
Achieving a gender-equal world requires
social innovations that work for both women
and men and leave no one behind. From
urban planning that focusses on community
safety to e-learning platforms that take
classrooms to women and girls, affordable
and quality childcare centres, and
technology shaped by women, innovation
can take the race for gender equality to its
fi  nishing line by 2030.
It begins with making sure that women’s
and girls’ needs and experiences are
integrated at the very inception of technology
and innovations. It means building smart
solutions that go beyond acknowledging
the gender gaps to addressing the needs
of men and women equally. And ultimately,
it needs innovations that disrupt business
as usual, paying attention to how and by
whom technology is used and accessed,
and ensuring that women and girls play a
decisive role in emerging industries.
that refl  ect crowd-sourced data on hotspot
attack or harassment zones.
Or it could be toilet constructions that
support women’s period management needs.
Or the use of biometrics as ID to replace
formal registration documents that many
women may not have or control.
In any of these scenarios, innovation and
technology with a gender perspective are
crucial to remove barriers and accelerate
progress for gender equality.
Our Global Innovation Coalition for Change
brings representatives from the private sector,
academia and non-profi  t institutions to develop
the innovation market so as to work better for
women and to accelerate the achievement of
gender equality and women’s empowerment.
Women and girls must have opportunities
to contribute to making real change, and help
shape the policies, services and infrastructure
that impact their lives.
As we have seen from recent marches for
climate action in Europe and elsewhere – they
are ready to do so.
When we put the focus on those who
are least heard, and least visible – whether
individuals, or those hundreds of millions of
informal sector workers who currently have
little or no presence in offi  cial planning, or
fi  nancial protection that will sustain them in ill-
heath, child care or older age – we are tackling
some of the deepest-reaching social problems
and can make the progress we want to see.
Women and girls must have opportunities to contribute to making real change, and
help shape the policies, services and infrastructure that impact their lives. As we have
seen from recent marches for climate action in Europe and elsewhere – they are
ready to do so.

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  86
Data will be the fuel
of the 4IR
By Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane
Former Minister of Science and Technology
D
r Kai-Fu Lee, who is the
Chairperson of the Global
Artificial Intelligence
Council, of which I am a
member, has written a very
interesting book, entitled:
AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and
the New World Order. In it, he argues very
strongly that China will become the global
leader in Artificial Intelligence (AI), surpassing
the United States of America (USA).
He believes that all the major breakthroughs
in terms of AI algorithms, the most recent
being the rapid advances in deep-learning
The development of technologies associated with the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (4IR) has started in earnest.
algorithms, have been accomplished. These
breakthroughs were mainly driven by the
USA. In other words, the USA led the first
phase of AI; China will lead the second phase.
Dr Lee argues that we are now entering this
second phase of AI, which he calls the Age of
Implementation. In this phase, we will see the
application of AI algorithms to problems such
as diagnosing a disease, predicting interstate
conflict, portfolio selection in the market,
driving a car or translating a language. Dr Lee
compares the application of AI algorithms to
the discovery of electricity. Once electricity
was discovered in algorithm form, it could be
applied almost everywhere – from cooking and
lighting to powering factories for production.
He also predicts that the people who will
cash in during this period of implementation
will be talented entrepreneurs, engineers and
product managers.
The question is: Why does he think China
will lead the Age of Implementation? The
answer: Data. China is collecting vast
amounts of data.
AI algorithms are driven by three things,
namely big data, computing power and the
work of strong AI algorithm engineers. In the
Age of Implementation, data is the key. This

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  87
phase of AI will also signal a transition to the
Age of Data. It is believed that this transition
will be to China’s advantage. China is
collecting more data than any other country in
the world. This means that China has all the
ingredients required to dominate the current
phase of AI. China’s engineers are as good
as their Western counterparts, though not
as creative. Computing power is equitably
distributed globally. It is the abundance of data
in China that will give it the edge, enabling it to
dominate.
Whether Dr Lee is correct in asserting
that the golden age of algorithm discovery
is behind us and that we have entered the
implementation age, leading to the Age of
Data, we will see in the fullness of time.
However, it is clear that whether his
predictions are true or not, data will be the fuel
of the 4IR. I recently participated in a forum on
AI and information and records management
at the South African Reserve Bank, and one of
the speakers warned against using the phrase:
“Data is the new oil”. His view is that oil is not
reusable; once you burn it, that’s it, it cannot
be used again. By contrast, data is reusable;
data collected today can be used a thousand
years from now.
With this in mind, the question that we
need to be asking is: Are we as a country, and
more broadly the African continent, sufficiently
collecting data? More broadly, what is it that we
are putting in place in our country to ensure
that we are able to respond to the emergence
of the 4IR?
South Africa has made substantial
investments in cyber infrastructure, as well
as in the acquisition and generation of data
across a number of domains. Driven by
initiatives such as the Square Kilometre Array
(SKA), these commitments are set to greatly
increase in the future, uniquely positioning the
country to derive substantial benefits from big
data. However, South Africa should not just be
a collector of data; rather, the economic, social,
scientific and industrial beneficiation potential
of big data for the country must be realised.
Admittedly, a lot more still needs to be
done to improve our data collection. This
brings me to an important technology, which
is one of the pillars of the 4IR, the Internet of
Things (IoT). Technologies such as 5G, IoT
sensors and platforms, edge computing, AI
and analytics, robotics, blockchain, additive
manufacturing and virtual reality are coalescing
into a fertile environment for the Industrial IoT.
Enabling IoT will lead to an exponential
increase in sensors capable of collecting
vast amounts of data from every piece of
equipment.
In this regard, we should all welcome
the assurance made by the President in his
State of the Nation Address in February 2019
and echoed by the Minister of Finance,
that government would be issuing a policy
directive to the Independent Communications
Authority of South Africa on the licensing of
frequency spectrum. This will pave the way
for investments in 5G technology that will
completely change the IoT landscape.
With regard to 4IR, we are in the process
of establishing an African 4IR centre, in the
form of a South African affiliate to the World
Economic Forum’s Centre for the 4IR. The
proposed centre, to be hosted by the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR),
will be aimed at creating an integrated and
comprehensive response to the African
and, specifically, South African, challenges
highlighted in the National Development Plan
as well as those that are new and emerging,
by leveraging the new wave of technological
revolution that is upon us. The centre will assist
with the coordination of research, innovation
and conformance standards testing to enable
Africa to effectively tackle its socio-economic
challenges and become a competitive
participant in the global economy.
Another notable development in the 4IR
space is the Centre for Artificial Intelligence
Research (CAIR), a distributed centre
conducting foundational, directed and applied
research into various aspects of AI. CAIR
has nodes at five South African universities
– the University of Cape Town, University
of KwaZulu-Natal, North-West University,
University of Pretoria and Stellenbosch
University – and is coordinated and managed
by the CSIR.
Similar platforms in nanotechnology,
additive manufacturing, cybersecurity,
unmanned aerial systems and biotechnology
have developed and grown through funding
and investment support from the Department of
Science and Technology. Efforts are underway
to support the development of platforms
in blockchain, data science and analytics,
quantum computing and the IoT.
The Global AI Council will provide strategic
guidance to the international community on
the priorities for AI and machine learning
governance and cooperation, while helping
to shape policy development and pilot
implementation work undertaken in this regard
across the centres in the network. The work
will include the piloting of policies aimed at
proactively mitigating the risks and exploiting
the benefits of emerging technologies for
society.
The Africa Tech Week, that was held
recently, aimed to “show businesses how
technology can be leveraged to make
more money, save more money and
become fully efficient in a sustainable way”.
Sustainability is a very important aspect that
needs to be considered when introducing
new technologies. It is important that the
sustainability that Africa Tech Week aims to
promote extends beyond individual business
sustainability. Henry Kissinger, former US
Secretary of State and a controversial giant
of American foreign policy, believes it may be
a lot harder to control the development of AI
weapons than nuclear ones. For this reason,
it is also important to think about safety, the
sustainability of jobs and the sustainability of
democracy.
One of the biggest concerns that law makers,
and members of the Global AI Council have
is around the regulation of the technologies
associated with the 4IR. Undoubtedly, AI is one
of the exponential technologies that are rapidly
altering the global business landscape. And I’m
quite certain that a lot of money will be made
from these technologies. My concern, and
I think it should be a concern for all of us, is, at
what cost? And what is it that we need to do to
avoid this cost?
To help us answer some of these
questions, we commissioned a baseline
and literature survey study of 4IR in South
Africa, the findings of which are expected
to be presented by the Human Sciences
Research Council. Further concepts such
as a converging technologies platform and
an inclusive development platform, both of
which are directed at enhancing the country’s
ability to take advantage of the 4IR, are being
refined.
President Cyril Ramaphosa has also
established the Presidential Commission on
the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which will help
the country to respond comprehensively to the
new environment, including how AI can assist
us in building a better country.
Together with all stakeholders, namely
business, labour and civil society, we will
work to develop policies and regulations that
will assist us to reap the benefits of the new
technologies, while averting the risks and
dangers that may arise in the future because
of these technologies.
DATA WILL BE THE FUEL OF THE 4IR
Are we as a country, and
more broadly the African
continent, sufficiently
collecting data? More
broadly, what is it that we
are putting in place in our
country to ensure that
we are able to respond
to the emergence of the
4IR?

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
88

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
89

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  90
Karoo project will unlock
universe’s mysteries
By Elsabé Brits
N
obody has yet detected a
signal so far back in time.
Not far from the already
completed 64-dish MeerKAT
radio telescope, on the same
site as the Square Kilometre
Array (SKA), some 90 km from the small town
of Carnarvon in the Northern Cape, another
telescope is taking shape. In fact, it looks
nothing like a telescope at all.
The Hydrogen Epoch of Reionisation Array
(HERA) radio telescope will be instrumental in
detecting the distinctive signature that would
allow astronomers to understand the formation
and evolution of the very first luminous sources:
the first stars and galaxies in the universe. And
even further back in time.
The HERA dishes themselves are nothing
elaborate; they’re made by using telephone
poles, PVC pipes, wire mesh and bit of wiring
here and there as well as metal reflectors.
A new telescope that is being constructed in the Karoo will have one
aim: to look at the cosmic dawn and find the first-ever signals of the
birth of the first stars in the universe.
The reason is that the dishes don’t need to
move. They have short lifespans and only one
scientific objective, which is to look at the very
early universe, just a few million years after the
Big Bang, which occurred 13.7 billion years
ago.
HERA will be the most sensitive radio
telescope built to look as far back as
13.5 billion years ago. There are whispers
among astronomers that this might bring the
first-ever Nobel Prize in physics for the African
continent in years to come.
It is an international collaboration between
America, Britain and South Africa. The
construction material comes from the Karoo
region and the work is done by local people
from Carnarvon, who also act as team leaders.
Carina Cheng, a graduate student working
on HERA, explains that they are interested in
a time called the Epoch of Reionisation (EoR).
It is an era in cosmic history which occurred
about a million to a billion years after the Big
Bang.
“Here’s what happened: After the universe
began with an explosion of energy, it expanded
and cooled and neutral hydrogen atoms were
eventually able to form.” (The universe is
mostly made of hydrogen.)
For a long time, the universe was dark
and neutral, explains Cheng. But there were
fluctuations (slight over-densities of matter),
left over from the Big Bang. These slowly grew.
Eventually the densest regions collapsed to
form the first luminous structures. These were
the first stars and galaxies.
“These stars and galaxies emit light, and
their energies ionised the neutral hydrogen.
This transition – from neutral hydrogen to
ionised hydrogen – because of the first stars
and galaxies, is called the EoR,” explains
Cheng. “It is thought to have begun a few
million years after the Big Bang and end about

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  91
a billion years later. This era is particularly
exciting because it is relatively unexplored.”
“As telescopes have become more and
more sensitive, we’ve been able to look at
galaxies further and further away [further
and further back in time], but we’re only just
beginning to be able to see these ‘first’ galaxies,
now,” Cheng says.
“Instead, mapping the hydrogen itself – as it
alters phase from neutral to ionised – using radio
telescopes is a promising and complementary
way to probe this era. If we can map out how
the gas changes over time, we will learn about
the properties of the first stars and galaxies that
are responsible for the ionising. For example,
whether the hydrogen gas was ionised quickly
or slowly – or over large scales or small scales
– will tell us about the characteristics of the first
stars and galaxies,” Cheng says.
But there is currently a problem. Telescopes
can receive signals from times very far back
– and then they hit a “curtain”. It is called the
cosmic microwave background radiation (CMB)
– at about 380 000 years after the Big Bang.
Prof. David de Boer, astronomer from
the University of California at Berkeley, the
university leading the scientific team, explains
that HERA has been optimised to remove this
“curtain” or signals which are very bright. We
will be able to see through it.
How do astronomers distinguish between
the very first stars and galaxies and the “noise
and signals” in the foreground?
“This is the hardest part of it all, since the
foreground material is about a million times
brighter, so we need to get rid of it. They do
have a different spectrum from what we are
trying to find. So, the EoR would sound like
the static you heard when you dial between
two radio stations, while the foreground would
sound like someone whistling. We can filter that
out and measure the static,” Prof. de Boer says.
Kathryn Rosie, project engineer of
HERA, says the instrument will consist of
350 dishes. It will be finished this year and
they hope to observe from September to
March. Observations of this kind are better in
summer because of the sunlight’s impact on
the atmosphere and the galactic plane. Most
of those strong foreground noises come from
our own galaxy and these get weaker if most of
them are below the horizon.
Rosie says they can get away with using
mesh as a reflective surface because the
wavelengths they are interested in (1.2 m – 6 m)
are too long to pass through the small holes in
the mesh (6.4 mm).
“This is the same reason that the screen in
your microwave has holes in it the size that it
does. Those holes are large enough to let light
through, but small enough to not let the 12.2 cm
microwaves pass through. So, you can see your
food without microwaving your face.”
How do the dishes work?
The HERA telescope design is a parabolic
dish, which focusses light rays to a centre point
above the dish, where a feed hangs which
collects the light. The dishes, which act as one
telescope, are closely packed, pointing in the
same direction. The signals travel from the
telescope, through long cables, into a digital
signal processing system.
Each dish is 14 m in diameter, and the
reflector is about 2.5 m off the ground. The
feeds are rigged 4.5 m above the bottom centre
of the dish.
Rosie says: “We are proud of the fact that all of
the build materials, items and labour involved in
the construction of the reflector elements have
been sourced from within South Africa, with
most of our bulk materials being sourced from
within the Karoo.”
When you look at the moon on a clear night,
you’re seeing it as it was 1.3 seconds ago,
because it takes light 1.3 seconds to travel from
the moon’s surface to our eyes.
When you look at Sirius, a bright star known
as the “Dog Star”, which accompanies the
constellation Orion, you’re seeing it as it was
8.6 years ago, because that’s how long it takes
for its light to travel to us.
When you see the Large Magellanic Cloud,
a nearby galaxy that you can see with your
naked eye from South Africa on a really dark
night, you’re seeing it as it was 160 thousand
years ago.
“HERA employs this same profound
principle – that light takes a finite time to travel
the cosmos – to observe billions of years ago.
The wealth of information that HERA will unlock
about our early universe is exciting, but for me
personally – the sheer fact that astronomers
are able to piece together the history of our
universe with observations spanning billions of
years will always be a remarkable feat,” says
Cheng.
 www.groundup.org.za
“As telescopes have become
more and more sensitive, we’ve
been able to look at galaxies
further and further away [further
and further back in time], but we’re
only just beginning to be able to
see these ‘first’ galaxies, now.”

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  92
Africa should be building
private-public partnerships
in education
By Professor Teboho Moja
New York University
S
uch partnerships have also
benefited some sectors of
society in African countries
and elsewhere in the global
South.
In Africa’s education
sector, public-private partnerships have been
largely limited to infrastructure developments
and the provision of education. It’s time for
the continent’s higher education sector to
develop its own partnership models that deal
Private-public partnerships have become a common strategy for
countries all over the world to meet their development goals. In the
global North, these partnerships – which bring capital and expertise
together – tend to focus on developing infrastructure. That includes
energy, ports, rail and fibre networks.
with a different currency: knowledge. Public-
private partnerships should centre on the
production, transfer and use of knowledge for
social and economic development.
First, the sector must interrogate why
strategic public-partnerships are important.
What are the advantages? Who benefits?
And, are there accrued benefits for those
beyond the partners involved?
It’s also vital to examine partnerships
that already exist. Their successes and
failures must be interrogated. There is good
work being done on the continent. Now the
success stories must combine their efforts for
greater impact.
The mechanics
Ideally, public-private partnerships in the
higher education sector should involve
a combination of several actors: the
private sector, academic researchers and
governments. Other scientific resources, such
AFRICA SHOULD BE BUILDING PRIVATE-PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS IN EDUCATIONFEATURE |

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  93
as science granting councils, have a role to
play, too. The National Research Foundation
in southern Africa, National Council for
Science and Technology in Eastern Africa,
and Programme d’Appui Stratégique à la
Recherche Scientifique  in Côte d’Ivoire are
examples of such councils.
Higher education institutions and research
groups must explore and create opportunities
to connect researchers. This will allow them
to establish collaborative projects with other
scientists throughout the continent.
They must also support opportunities
and activities that would link researchers
with projects at national laboratories and
research centres run by governments and the
private sector. This would allow experts and
leaders from academia, government agencies
and national organisations to contribute
knowledge to inform transformative science
and policies.
At the same time, we cannot ignore the
fact that partnerships’ power relations and
dynamics must be carefully managed to
ensure equal benefit for, for instance, those
from the global South and those from the
global North.
Who benefits, and how
Academic researchers, including students,
get exposure by getting involved in real and
immediately relevant research. Private-
sector researchers are supported with an
up-to-date base of literature to inform their
work. This knowledge and skills exchange
is beneficial for both parties. Of course, it
also benefits governments and nations more
broadly by producing solutions to problems or
challenges.
International and regional academic
partnerships have become the “overriding
paradigm” for international development
cooperation and policy. As a result, the
partners stand to benefit through connecting
with global networks and learning from each
other.
In addition, African perspectives and those
from other parts of the developing world
would be included to inform global issues.
We live in an interconnected world. Problems
and solutions should be addressed together,
rather than from one perspective.
Learning lessons
As I have said, there are already networks
and partnerships that involve public and
private organisations in the research space,
and from which lessons can be drawn and
models developed.
A few examples include the Global
University Network, which consists of 4 500
research institutions across 160 countries; the
Social Aspects of HIV/AIDS Research Alliance
in South Africa; and the United States-based
Improvement Science Research Network.
Governments can also be drawn into
existing and new partnerships. They could
either act as partners, or offer links to
researchers through existing bilateral or
multilateral agreements in other sectors.
These links can be used to create continent-
to-continent partnerships; continent-to-
country partnerships; partnerships on demand
based on regional requests and requirements;
and organisational partnerships. This mimics
the partnership structures already prioritised
by the African Union.
This article is based on the author’s keynote address at the Annual Forum
and Global Research Council Africa Regional Meeting in Côte d’Ivoire
during November 2018. It was first published on The Conversation.
AFRICA SHOULD BE BUILDING PRIVATE-PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS IN EDUCATION
Ideally, public-private partnerships in the higher education sector should involve
a combination of several actors: the private sector, academic researchers and
governments. Other scientific resources, such as science granting councils, have
a role to play, too. The National Research Foundation in southern Africa, National
Council for Science and Technology in Eastern Africa, and Programme d’Appui
Stratégique à la Recherche Scientifique in Côte d’Ivoire are examples of such
councils.

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  94
Iconic Map of Africa
opened at the
southernmost tip of Africa
T
he map pays homage to the
mighty African continent and
boasts a circumference of
30 metres.
The Iconic Map of Africa
Monument was commissioned and
developed at the Agulhas National Park by
the Department of Tourism in collaboration
with South African National Parks
(SANParks) to enhance visitor experience
and boost the local tourism economy.
The Iconic Map of Africa Monument was unveiled at the southernmost
tip of Africa in the Agulhas National Park in the Southern Overberg
region of the Western Cape in March 2019.
The monument is a map of Africa which has
been hand-sculpted out of concrete. It is
raised with ridges, peaks and hills, showing
the mountain ranges, valleys and more
across the continent – in short, it is a 3D relief
map. Visitors are encouraged to step onto the
monument and “explore” the continent.
The Iconic Map has been aligned with
the Earth compass, with the tip of the Africa
monument pointing to the south.
The artists wanted the monument to show
the differing landscapes across the continent.
Different metal powders were sprayed onto
the monument that will, over time, react
with chemicals from the environment and
atmosphere and turn different colours.
These will represent the different biomes
and vegetation over different areas of the
continent.
The southernmost tip of Africa personifies
a quiet sense of calm. The monument design
shows the direction of the compass and
includes representation of several African

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  95
landmarks, according to the Department of
Tourism.
It also lends itself to walking mediation
or quiet contemplation while visitors admire
the confluence of the two mighty oceans: the
Atlantic and Indian oceans.
“South Africa’s rich biodiversity and
natural heritage found in our national parks
are key tourism drawcards. We can only
enhance these amazing tourism offerings by
adding features like the Iconic Map of Africa
Monument to deliver memorable experiences
to our visitors and ensure many happy
returns,” the former Minister of Tourism,
Derek Hanekom, said at the unveiling.
“The funding and supporting of
infrastructure development projects are
particularly important to us – it enables us
to fulfil our mandate of creating inclusive
economic opportunities for our people.
Remember, through these initiatives, people
get jobs and local small, medium and micro
enterprises (SMMEs) also generate income
from the services they render.
“All South Africans should desire tourism
growth as it translates into economic growth,
jobs and opportunities for many,” said the
Minister.
During the year-long construction of
the R15-million project, employment was
provided for 79 local community members
and involved seven SMMEs.
The project also included the construction
of a 1-km road, realignment of the boardwalk
and rehabilitation of the terrain. The
construction presented training opportunities
to beneficiaries in different skills programmes
such as painting, plumbing, tiling and
plastering, demonstrating the broad benefits
of tourism and community beneficiation.
“Tourism is an industry that can readily
deliver the jobs and sustainable economic
growth that our country so urgently needs.
Through partnerships and collaboration
of this nature, we are able to ensure the
sustainability of the sector’s growth,” said
former Minister Hanekom.
The Chief Executive Officer of SANParks,
Fundisile Mketeni, said the monument marked
the geographical and spiritual significance of
the southernmost tip of Africa to enhance the
status of the area as a prime national and
international tourist destination.
“We have earmarked this park in our
tourism growth strategy as a necessary
vehicle, particularly in attracting visitors to this
part of the world,” Mketeni said.
Phase two of the project will be the
development of the Lighthouse Precinct
Project, which will include construction of a
conference facility, a restaurant, interpretive
centre, paving and walkways.
SAnews.gov.za / www.getaway.co.za

FEaTURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  96

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  97
SA’s Stroop triumphs at
International Wildlife Film
Festival
T
he annual festival celebrates
wildlife, the environment and
people’s relationship to wildlife
through film. This year saw
over 300 films submitted from
all over the world, of which 70
films were selected from 36 countries.
“Even if you think you already understand
the rhino poaching crisis, Stroop must be seen.
It is heartwarming and heartbreaking and the
access is unprecedented. The filmmakers are
endearing and courageous. It will stay with you
long after you finish watching,” stated IWFF
judges after Stroop’s double win.
The local film was up against big-budget
films from the likes of National Geographic, the
BBC, PBS and Netflix, which usually dominate
the natural history filmmaking landscape. So, it
was a surprise win for filmmakers Susan Scott
and Bonné de Bod.
“Stroop’s reception worldwide continues
to amaze us! We had hoped the international
community would take notice of our
heartbreaking rhino issue in South Africa but
they’ve reacted hugely to the film, and this is
now our 17th win since the film’s release just
a few months ago,” said a delighted de Bod.
Stroop was an independent undertaking by
Scott and De Bod who self-funded and crowd-
funded through the public and later received
post-production grants to help them finish
the film. Since its world premiere at the San
Francisco Green Film Festival in September
2018, the film has been officially selected for
25 film festivals and has been picked up by
South African film, Stroop – Journey into the Rhino Horn War, was
awarded the sought-after Best of Festival Award as well as Best
Independent or Feature Film at the International Wildlife Film Festival
(IWFF) in April 2019 in the United States of America.
the London-based Journeyman Pictures for
international distribution. These two accolades
picked up at the IWFF marked the film’s 16th
and 17th awards.
Scott, director of the film, adds: “The IWFF
is known for looking at all aspects of wildlife
filmmaking and we actually thought Stroop
might stand a chance to get selected last year.
In fact, we wanted to world premiere there and
were aiming for it in our edit, but we just could
not get Stroop finished in time. So, it’s surreal
for us that the film is being honoured this year
by the prestigious festival for which we were
just hoping to get selected. It’s an incredible
achievement for the film and once again
this puts our rhinos firmly in the international
spotlight.”
The theme at this year’s IWFF, held in
Montana, was “adaptation”, with the focus set
on humans and animals struggling to adapt to
a changing climate, as well as filmmakers who
spend years on a story and find new ways to
reach audiences. “The trend of embracing the
responsibility of showing those kinds of stories
is pretty real,” said festival director, Carrie
Richer.
The IWFF is attended by over 12 000
people and involves top wildlife filmmakers,
producers, scientists and conservation leaders.
The week-long festival is a juried event that
recognises scientific accuracy, artistic appeal
and technical excellence of films submitted
from around the world. Past IWFF Best of
Festival winner, Chasing Coral, went on to be
shortlisted for an Academy Award after its win
in 2017.
 www.bizcommunity.com
The local film was up
against big-budget films
from the likes of National
Geographic, the BBC,
PBS and Netflix, which
usually dominate the
natural history filmmaking
landscape. So, it
was a surprise win for
filmmakers Susan Scott
and Bonné de Bod.
SA’S STROOP TRIUMPHS AT INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE FILM FESTIVAL

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  98
How South Africans forged
a path to making opera truly
African
By Wayne Muller
Publications Editor / Research Fellow (Africa Open Institute for Music, Research and Innovation), Stellenbosch University
M
ore inclusive performance
arenas and funding
models have emerged
in the past 30 years.
Arguably, opera has
undergone the most
significant changes. Once viewed as an elitist
Eurocentric art form with little relevance in South
Africa, opera has become an international export
commodity eliciting pride among all South
Africans. Opera used to be seen as a “white” art
form. Today, most opera singers are black.
The country has produced star singers with
busy international careers, such as soprano
Pretty Yende and tenor Levy Sekgapane. And
there’s also been a proliferation of indigenous
operas being composed.
Standard European repertory operas are
still the most performed. But they are usually
given a distinctly South Africa spin. A fine
example is the international award-winning
film version of Bizet’s Carmen. It’s set in
Khayelitsha, a black township outside Cape
Town, and titled U-Carmen eKhayelitsha.
The transformation of the arts in South Africa has been on the cultural
agenda since the dawn of democracy in 1994. Prior to that, the
apartheid government was deeply vested in advancing and funding the
performance of Western European art forms.
For my doctoral thesis, which will form part
of an upcoming book, I charted the evolution
of opera between 1985 and 2015. My focus
was on the reception of opera performances
in Cape Town, which I assessed by analysing
newspaper reviews and articles on opera.
The study looked at how arts journalists
and reviewers “negotiated” with their readers
the changes in opera. Articles moved away
from taking the European canon as the natural
starting point, towards describing an operatic
ideal that seemed to merge Western European
operatic traditions and indigenous South
African music.
The research also showed how canonic
operas were adopted and how compositions
of new indigenous South African operas
emerged. Nonetheless, Western aesthetic
values and standards have been kept in place.
I concluded that opera today in South Africa
– in its staging and composition – seems to be
a hybrid of European and local ideals of what
the art form is. Over 30 years, a way has been
charted towards creating a unique voice.
Relevant opera
For a long time, the standard repertoire
was performed in English and Afrikaans
translation while Italian, German and French
operas continued to be staged in their original
European settings. Adapting these operas
so that they were relevant in a South African
setting sparked the “Africanisation” of opera.
For example, the 1997 Cape Town
interpretation of Puccini’s La Bohème was
set in Soweto during the student uprising of
1976. Verdi’s Macbeth (2001) played off in the
Democratic Republic of Congo amid a guerrilla
war. Lehár’s popular The Merry Widow was
transported from Vienna to an imaged African
state called Malagawi (2015).
Besides new settings and translations,
operatic music has also been “Africanised”.
The music of Purcell’s 17th-century Dido and
Aeneas was interjected with Africa rhythms
and instruments in a 2002 performance at the
Spier Amphitheatre in Stellenbosch. And for
a 2007 production of Mozart’s evergreen The
HOW SOUTH AFRICANS FORGED A PATH TO MAKING OPERA TRULY AFRICAN

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  99
Magic Flute, Western instruments made way
for marimbas and African drums.
These are just a few examples of
operas that have been made relevant for a
contemporary South African audience.
Indigenous
The most significant change in the local
operatic landscape has been the prolific
composition of indigenous operas. Since 1995,
17 new local operas have been performed in
Cape Town alone – the majority of them based
on South African stories.
Relating the true events of the Bulhoek
massacre in the Eastern Cape, the first of these
new local operas was Enoch, Prophet of God
(1995) by the late Roelof Temmingh (1946 – 2012).
The Bulhoek massacre happened in 1921 when
a lay priest, Enoch Mgijima, and his church
followers, called the Israelites, were killed
by police after they had supposedly illegally
occupied a farm. Playwright Athol Fugard’s
Valley Song, was transformed into an opera
(2005) by Thomas Rajna. While these two
examples were still written in the Western
classical idiom, Hans Huyssen’s Masque
(2005) was hailed by a Cape Times reviewer
as going beyond the adaptation of Western
music.
As with Enoch, Prophet of God, historical
characters have been popular. Mzilikazi
Khumalo wrote an opera about the life
of Magogo, the Zulu princess, poet and
prophetess.
The 19th-century Xhosa prophetess
Nongqawuse was a character in two operas:
Mats Larsson Gothe’s Poet and Prophetess
(2008) and Neo Muyanga’s Heart of Redness
(2015). The latter was based on Zakes Mda’s
novel The Heart of Redness.
Realism and addressing pressing
contemporary South African societal issues
have clearly been the focus of local opera
composition since 1995. It has been described
by opera critics as a showcase of a musical
and theatrical representation of local opera.
The study has shown that the
“Africanisation” of opera through changing
settings and musical scores have gone some
way to establish what can be termed “South
Africa opera”.
This hybrid of European and local ideas of
opera is not an ideal performance practice or
aesthetics. It has merely forged a way towards
making opera truly South African – a path
that’s still in need of further travel.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
HOW SOUTH AFRICANS FORGED A PATH TO MAKING OPERA TRULY AFRICAN
Pretty yende

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
100

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
101

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  102
 #a good story to tell
In May 2019, South Africa was named the best safari experience in
Africa at the Safari Awards Africa 2019.
“The importance of this award is that it sets us apart from all the
other safari destinations, as we have the unique advantage of being
able to showcase our world-class ocean safaris with our incredible
land safari offerings. Being awarded this prestigious accolade is a true
honour,” said Bradley Brouwer, Head of Global Trade for SA Tourism.
The awards are endorsed by Safari Guild, a travel buyer
organisation run by its travel professional members, which has 6 500
buyers into Africa, and generates US$3.5 bllion a year.
“The award is a massive endorsement for South Africa as it tells agents that the Safari Guild is saying they love the South African product and
that the country is a great destination,” said Henry Hallward from Miranda Travel Group and non-executive director of travelexpo360.com – sponsor
of the awards.
Entries were judged over a week, after agents and clients nominated and rated them online. “Only experiences with a rating over a set number
become visible to the judges,” said Hallward.
The platform worked closely with SA Tourism on Africa’s Travel Indaba, promoting it before and during the show.
Tourismupdate.co.za
South Africa voted best safari experience in Africa
Brand South Africa welcomes United Nations (UN) peacekeeping operations
Brand South Africa has noted and welcomes the UN’s recognition
and praise of South Africa’s role in peacekeeping missions on the
African continent.
Speaking at the 2019 commemoration of the International Day
of UN Peacekeepers, held in Bloemfontein at the end of May 2019,
the newly appointed UN Resident Coordinator in South Africa,
Nardos Bekele-Thomas, said that the country’s brave men and
women should be celebrated for they put their lives at risk daily
in their efforts to bring peace and security in the countries from
which they operate. “Many other South African men and women
have paid the ultimate price in the service for global peace,” added
Bekele-Thomas.
Since the advent of democracy in 1994, domestic and
international expectations have steadily grown regarding South
Africa’s role as a responsible and respected member of the
internationally community.
“South Africa has come a long way since the days when the
sight of its armed forces used to instil fear among the peoples of neighbouring states. Since 1994, South Africa has transformed the South African
National Defence Force into a symbol of hope and a defender of defenceless people. South Africa’s armed forces are celebrated today for their
critical role in stabilising, reconstruction and development of infrastructure and the training of troops in war-torn countries,” said Brand South Africa
Acting CEO, Thulisile Manzini.
With a total of more than 1 190 troops stationed in UN Peacekeeping missions in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan and South Sudan,
South Africa is considered as the 11th-biggest troop contributor to UN Peacekeeping in Africa and the 17th-biggest in the world.

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  103
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
SA to introduce 4IR Affiliate Centre in September
SA wins big at the Africa and Indian Ocean Edition of the World Travel Awards
South Africa and the World Economic Forum (WEF) have signed a host
government accord to establish an affiliate centre of the WEF’s Fourth
Industrial Revolution Centre (C4IR).
South Africa will be joining China, India and Japan, which already have
affiliate centres.
The C4IR, which is intended to be launched in September in South
Africa, acts as a hub for global, multi-stakeholder cooperation to develop
policy frameworks and advance collaborations that accelerate the benefits
of science and technology.
It focusses on issues of local concern and contributes to the overall
research and thought leadership processes of the C4IR network.
The South African Government, through the Department of Science
and Technology, intends to establish its affiliate centre as a public-private
partnership based at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).
Former Science and Technology Minister, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, said the establishment of the South African C4IR would provide a platform
for stakeholders in South Africa to work together on the evolution of new technologies.
 The Minister said it was no longer possible to discuss economic development without factoring in the impact of the 4IR on the economy as a whole.
“Any effort we make as a country to grow our economy will now largely be shaped by how quickly we are able to embrace and master the
technologies associated with the Fourth Industrial Revolution.”
Head of the WEF’s C4IR Network, Murat Sönmez, urged South Africa to make sure that 4IR technologies benefitted all communities, particularly the
poor. This, he said, was important as technology in the 4IR environment was advancing rapidly.
“South Africa has the potential to contribute to all these developments in the global network and has a seat on the C4IR Advisory Board, helping to
shape what we are intent on achieving. We are therefore looking forward to hosting this affiliate centre in South Africa,” Sönmez said.
The CEO of the CSIR, Dr Thulani Dlamini, said the council was ready to partner with the private and public sectors to develop relevant technologies
for the 4IR.
He said the CSIR’s focus areas for 4IR included applying technologies for improved service delivery, training the future workforce and developing
and implementing scalable 4IR infrastructure.
SAnews.gov.za
From luxury wine estates and gigantic tourist attractions, to the best ways to fly in the
sky, the World Travel Awards are a grand achievement that tell travellers which are the
most trusted brands.
On Saturday, 1 June 2019, the Africa and Indian Ocean edition of the awards was
held at the swanky Sugar Beach Resort, Mauritius.
The nightly celebrations were welcomed by founder and president of the World Travel
Awards, Graham Cooke, who started the event in 1993. Since then, it has grown into one
of the industry’s highest benchmarks.
Handed out by South Africa’s Jo-Anne Strauss, there were some big winners from
South Africa:  Table Mountain won the continent’s Leading Tourist Attraction, while Cape
Town International won the Best Airport Category, as the city took home Best Events and
Festivals Destination.
The Saxon Hotel, Villas and Spa took home the Boutique Hotel Category, while Durban won in three categories: Best City, Best Meetings and
Conference Destination and Best Cruise Port.
The Leading Wine Country Hotel in South Africa went to the rebuilt Lanzerac Wine Estate in Stellenbosch, while Shambala Private Game
Reserve in Limpopo got Africa’s Leading Private Game Reserve.
Kenya also won big with their airline taking home two awards for their Business and Economy classes. Nairobi was named the Top Business
Travel Destination and then the ultimate Africa’s Leading Destination. It was also announced that Kenya would be next year’s host for the World
Travel Awards.
This year’s host, Mauritius, also raked in the wins. Besides scoring the coveted Indian Ocean’s Leading Destination Award, it also took top
honours in the cruise, airline, airport, resorts and wedding destination categories.
traveller24

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  104
 #a good story to tell
Privately owned property development company Amdec is optimistic about South
Africa’s future, and its new R1.5-billion Yacht Club precinct on the Foreshore in
Cape Town was a sign of just that, CEO James Wilson told Fin24 at the offi  cial
unveiling of the completed project on Tuesday, 16 April 2019.
The mixed-use development includes 170 luxury residential apartments, 6 000m²
of premium-grade offi  ce space and the fi  rst AC Hotel by Marriott to open in Africa.
“We are very proud of what we produced here and honoured to be in partnership
with Marriott. Our relationship is based on mutual respect and this is the third of the
seven-hotel deal we have with them,” said Wilson.
“I remain eternally optimistic about South Africa. It has great natural resources,
including its people. We must all be more optimistic about our future. We put our
money where our mouth is. This R1.5-billion investment in South Africa shows our
optimism.”
In Wilson’s view, the gap the Yacht Club development fi  lls, is the ability for people to live, work and play in the same precinct.
 “I think it is an interesting place to live. You can pop down to a restaurant and if you work at one of the offi  ces here, you can use the conference and
board room facilities at the hotel as well as the catering,” said Wilson.
“That makes it a unique and holistic offering with a focus on security. We are also proud to be neighbours of the V&A Waterfront as it offers our guests
the opportunity to walk there or use a free water taxi service.”
Wilson is proud that Amdec has aligned with Marriott and sees potential marketing value for Cape Town from tapping into the international hotel
group’s 73-million-member loyalty programme.
As a 4-star grading, the new hotel will complement all the 5-star hotels already dominating the Foreshore and Waterfront area
. www.news24.com
New R1.5-billion yacht club precinct unveiled in Cape Town
Black industrialists projects attract R13.2 billion
The 131 projects that have been approved under the Black Industrialists Scheme have resulted in increased investments and job creation.
“The approval of these 131 projects of black entrepreneurs has leveraged over R13.2 billion of private-sector investment, about 9 500 new jobs
created and 8 900 retained in a wide range of manufacturing sub-sectors,” the former Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies, said in February
2019. The Minister was responding to members of the Trade and Industry Portfolio Committee on issues relating to his department that emanated
from the State of the Nation Address.
The Black Industrialists Scheme is the incentive programme of the Black Industrialists Policy, which aims to promote the participation of black
industrialists as manufacturers in key sectors of the economy as identifi  ed in the Industrial Policy Action Plan.
Going forward, former Minister Davies said the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) would increase efforts of providing fi  nancial, market access,
capacity-building and technical support to approved black industrialists in collaboration with state-owned companies, other government departments
and the private sector.
Minister Davies further announced that in 2018, 22 trade missions and 20 national pavilions were undertaken across the world, where the dti
supported companies to showcase their products and services.
Over 800 enterprises were assisted and approximately R4 billion export sales were recorded. Fifteen national pavilions are planned and 864
enterprises are expected to be supported in 2019.
With efforts to revitalise industrial parks to enable them to serve as catalysts
for broader economic and industrial development in their host regions (townships
and rural areas), Minister Davies said R300 million had been approved for the
second phase of the industrial parks’ revitalisation.
By February 2019, six industrial parks had been launched and funded to the
value of R511 million and four will be ready to be launched this year.
The Industrial Parks Revitalisation Programme is one of the fl  agship
programmes of government aimed at facilitating broad-based economic
participation to achieve inclusive growth, as well as facilitating the transformation
of the economy.
The Minister further mentioned that 2019 would see the launch of Eastern
Cape, Limpopo, Northern Cape and the Free State InvestSA one stop shops, in
addition to the operational offi  ces in KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng and the Western
Cape. These one-stop shops are critical to facilitating and increasing quality
investments into the economy, he said.
SAnews.gov.za

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  105
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Total discovers goldmine of gas off southern coast of South Africa
Two South African hotels named in the world’s top 100 for 2019
Total made a “signifi  cant” discovery 175 kilometres off the southern coast
of South Africa.
French energy giant, Total, announced recently that it had found
“signifi  cant” gas off the southern coast of South Africa.
“Total has made a signifi  cant gas condensate discovery on the
Brulpadda prospects, in the Outeniqua Basin, 175 kilometres off the
southern coast of South Africa,” it said in a statement.
Total’s CEO, Patrick Pouyanne, said the potential quantities “could
be around one billion barrels of global resources, gas and condensate
light oil”.
South Africa’s Mineral Resources Minister, Gwede Mantashe,
welcomed the news of the discovery as “potentially a major boost” for
the economy.
“It is exciting for our country. We welcome it as we continue to seek investment to grow our economy,” the Minister said.
www.thesouhtafrican.com
Elite Traveler has recently named its top 100 hotels in the world for 2019.
The Elite Traveler magazine is aimed at ultra-high-net-worth individuals and is the only audited publication with worldwide distribution aboard
private jets, fi  rst-class lounges and in fi  xed-base operations across over 100 countries.
The top 100 hotels list was curated by the magazine’s team of experts and features more than 34 countries.
Some of the factors considered when selecting a hotel include the resorts that go above and beyond to offer the most captivating atmosphere,
extraordinary comfort, impeccable service and standout amenities.
While the majority of the luxury hotels are located across the United States and Europe, two South African hotels feature on the list –
La Residence in Franschhoek and Singita Ebony Lodge in Sabi Sand.
Elite Traveler noted that Singita celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2018, with the camp winning a number of awards since its opening. “Ebony
Lodge is our favourite camp and is perfect for a family safari vacation,” it said.
“Situated in the Sabi Sand Game Reserve and surrounded by ebony trees, the lodge has 12 gorgeous suites with private pools and open
fi  replaces.
“Each suite also has its own deck suspended above the riverbank that overlooks the
bushveld – don’t be surprised if you spot animals drinking from the river.”
Elite Traveler noted that La Residence stood out for its location beneath the foothills
of the Franschhoek Mountains, surrounded by a 30-acre estate brimming with vines, fruit
trees, fl  owers and herbs.
“It is fl  amboyantly decadent and one of a kind, especially for South Africa, where most
hotels are a little more austere,” the magazine said.
“An eclectic mix of inspirations, from a Maharaja’s palace to the Palace of Versailles,
means that no two guestrooms are the same, and there’s fi  ne art and antiques wherever
you look.
“The panoramic views from the swimming pool are to die for, and if you want to head out and explore, there’s a complementary vehicle on call
to whisk you around – or hop on a bicycle to take it all in.”
www.businesstech.co.za

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  106
 #a good story to tell
Former Trade and Industry Minister, Rob Davies, on Tuesday, 23 April 2019,
launched Defy’s R130-million investment in South Africa that will not only boost the
country as an investment destination but also aid in creating much-needed jobs.
The investment will see the multinational produce six to seven and fi  ve to 10
kilogramme top loader washing machines for both the local and export market.
The investment is projected to produce a total of 75 new job opportunities that
will manufacture 500 top loaders per shift.
Speaking at the announcement of the investment at Defy’s factory in Jacobs,
Durban, former Minister Davies said the manufacturing development was a much-
needed boost to the local community.
It is important to note that even though statistics of this investment sound
modest in nature, they will go a long way in unlocking job opportunities in the South
African economy. They will also help us sustain our position, which has seen us continue increasing foreign direct investment into the country, while
the rest of the continent has experienced a contraction,” he said.
The Minister anticipated a signifi  cant increase in South African products to the African market.
“We are on the cusp of a very big change for Africa and the ratifi  cation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement, which was adopted by 22
members in Gambia on 22 April 2019, will open up the market for products manufactured from these countries. I hope also that this ratifi  cation will
enable an expansion of South Africa’s exports into Africa as well and commit to work with initiatives of this nature,” said Minister Davies.
The multinational will also invest in new cooking products. In July, Defy will launch a new outlook for their 60 cm built-in ovens with an investment
of approximately R7 million, which will be followed by a new free-standing stove investment of approximately R18 million, launching in the fi  rst quarter
of 2020.
Defy has also signed an agreement with Wits University to start a cooperation for joint engineering studies, focussing on developing new
technologies for some of its products.
The new satellite laboratory will be located in Midrand, Johannesburg, and will be operational by July 2019. The total investment for this project is
R15.7 million with a total of 39 new employment opportunities created.
SAnews.gov.za
Defy investment to boost SA economy
Stamp marks 25 years of democracy
The South African Post Offi  ce (Sapo) has released a special stamp to mark 25 years of democracy.
“The stamp effectively puts a seal on the key democratic rights that the Post Offi  ce has delivered to South
Africans over the past 25 years,” Sapo CEO, Mark Barnes, said on Friday, 26 April 2019.
Designed by the post offi  ce’s graphic designer, Rachel Ackermann, the artwork on the stamp uses a
combination of watercolours and digital artwork, and features a man holding the South African fl  ag, looking
out over the ocean to a symbolic future for all. The stamp costs R31.80 – the rate for a registered letter and is
available at all major post offi  ces or from SA.Stamps@postoffi  ce.co.za.
Since 1994, the Post Offi  ce has given formal addresses to seven million households in deep rural and
informal settlements. Before that, they had no formal addresses at all. “This enables them to open a bank
account and have a working cell phone. Financial Intelligence Centre Act requirements mean it is not possible to open a bank account without an
address. The same requirement applies to SIM card requirements of the Regulation of Interception of Communications Act.
“Because the address includes GPS markers, citizens who use these new addresses can be found by an emergency service – no matter how
informal their settlement,” Sapo said.
Through the new South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) card issued by Postbank, the Post Offi  ce delivers the right to dignity and social
security to more than 11 million South Africans.
In April 2019, the Sapo system disbursed close to R10 billion worth in Sassa grants.
The Post Offi  ce ensures the right of access to information for all through the digital terrestrial television project, where the Post Offi  ce registers
needy households for a digital decoder. This allows them to continue watching television after the switch to digital broadcasts.
“In the immediate future, the Post Offi  ce intends to launch an online platform that will help SMMEs to become active in e-commerce.
“Postbank intends to play a central role in funding business expansion, particularly for small businesses and traders, in its determination to help
bridge the economic divide in South Africa,” Sapo said.
SAnews.gov.za

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  107
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
Google Doodle celebrates SA’s 2019 elections
Luxury train hotel to be built at Kruger National Park (KNP)
Internet search engine Google has always been at the forefront of using
its doodles to signify international matters of importance. South African
milestones have also on occasion been depicted.
On Freedom Day, Google commemorated 25 years since South
Africa’s first democratic elections with a doodle depicting the South
African flag, which was first hoisted on 27 April 1994.
On Wednesday, 8 May 2019, Google again replaced its usual logo
with a doodle celebrating South Africa’s sixth democratic elections since
that historic day in 1994.
Depicting a ballot box with the South African flag, it clicked through to a number of links relating to the elections.
Google has in the past recognised South African events and people through its doodles.
 On 4 April, Google celebrated jazz legend Hugh Masekela on what would have been his 80th birthday.
 In January last year, Google paid tribute to South African author Alan Paton on what would have been his 115th birthday.
www.news24.co.za
A train hotel is being built at the iconic South African attraction,
the KNP.
Thebe Tourism Group revealed the plans at Africa’s Travel
Indaba recently. The Kruger Shalati Train on a bridge is being
hailed as a unique luxury accommodation experience that will
open in December 2019. The new initiative pays tribute to the
history of Kruger when visitors to park once arrived by train.
The project incorporates the iconic and still original old
Selati railway bridge at Skukuza Camp, where the KNP’s first
warden, James Steven-Hamilton, welcomed visitors nearly
100 years ago. At night, these same guests would retreat into
the train to sleep, before it moved on to its next destination
the following day.
Looking to recreate the magic of these early visitor
encounters, the project will see the restoration and upgrading
of a train that will permanently rest on the original tracks
running across the bridge, high above the waters of the Sabie
River.
The train, in its stationary position with an external walkway
attached to the bridge structure, allows the Kruger Shalati rooms to be much larger than the expected traditional train compartment-style room,
complete with floor-to-ceiling windows welcoming the unsurpassed views from atop the Sabie River into the room.
An old block-house next to the bridge will be used as the base for an innovative pool deck designed with an overhanging pool metres above
the river where travellers can, hopefully, catch a glimpse of the Big Five.
Immersing guests in the comfort of an Afro-chic boutique hotel experience, the train itself will offer 24 en-suite rooms able to sleep 48 guests,
with another seven rooms in adjacent Kruger Shalati Bridge House accommodating 14 beds on land next to the bridge. All rooms will offer guests
a high-star rating luxury experience and will be accompanied by fine dining and other leisure experiences on site.
Judiet Barnes, Concession General Manager of Kruger Shalati, said the project was an opportunity to revitalise and recapture an important
part of Kruger’s history.
“Not only have we not seen anything alike in our country, but neither is there anything similar in the world. This is a ‘must experience’ destination
and will entice visitors locally and from across the globe to experience a very important part of our park’s history,” said Barnes.
She said the surrounding communities would be empowered through world-class training, skills development initiatives and job opportunities
with the project. The Kruger Shalati team is working very closely with SANParks to ensure minimal disruption to the park.
www.iol.co.za

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  108
 #a good story to tell
President Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday, 10 April 2019, offi  ciated at a ceremony
during which automotive group Nissan announced an expansion of its investment
in South Africa. The investment ceremony took place at the Nissan production plant
at Rosslyn in the City of Tshwane.
The Presidency said the development was a demonstration of confi  dence in
South Africa as an investment destination. The investment was among several
pledges presented at the inaugural South Africa Investment Conference, held in
Johannesburg in October last year. The conference generated R290 billion in new
investments, with the automotive sector accounting for R40 billion over the next
fi  ve years.
“Nissan South Africa’s expansion is a culmination of collaborative work by
the automotive industry, the Department of Trade and Industry and the Gauteng
Provincial Government’s Gauteng Growth and Development Agency and the Automotive Industry Development Centre,” The Presidency said.
Projects to the value of R187 billion from the pledges committed at the South Africa Investment Conference are currently undergoing implementation.
Projects worth another R26 billion are in the pre-implementation phase.
“These projects are reinforcing South Africa’s ambition to attract R1.4 trillion in domestic and international investment over a period of fi  ve years,”
The Presidency said.
The automotive industry contributes 6.9% to gross domestic product, which accounts for 30.1% of manufacturing output and 13.9% of total
exports.
The sector employs more than 110 000 people in the vehicle and component manufacturing and averages annual investment of R12.2 billion.
The Presidency said government remained committed to further support investment and development of the automotive industry in line with the
National Industrial Policy Action Framework and the Industrial Policy Action Plan.
SAnews.gov.za
Nissan announces expansion of investment in SA
SA investment efforts bear fruit
South Africa’s investment facilitation efforts have borne fruit, with the country taking home the Investment
Promotion Award.
“South Africa’s investment mobilisation drive is gaining traction and the latest data from the South African
Reserve Bank and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development indicates a major increase in
foreign direct investment (FDI) from previous years.
“We have turned the corner, improving our investment climate and investor facilitation service,” said former
Trade and Industry Minister, Rob Davies.
South Africa took home the Investment Promotion Award at the 2019 Annual Investment Meeting (AIM),
held in Dubai. AIM is the world’s leading FDI platform. AIM recognised Invest SA for facilitating the most
innovative and digitally orientated investment projects for 2018.
The ninth annual meeting attracted invest-promotion agencies from around the world, delegates from 140
countries, government offi  cials, practitioners and investors.
Minister Davies said the award reaffi  rmed the commitments announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa
during his State of the Nation Address in February 2019 to align South Africa’s economic development
priorities on securing innovative investment projects in the digital and technology fi  elds to ensure the country was able to achieve Vision 2030 goals.
He said South Africa was a renowned investment destination that protected investor rights, was signatory to international treaties that reinforced
trade in goods and services and safeguarded intellectual property.
“Policy certainty on [the] South African ICT landscape and noticeable improvements on FDI ranking indices have underpinned the strides South
Africa has made in securing investment in digital, ICT and Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), industries” he said.
The Minister said InvestSA would continue to lead efforts to improve the investment digital infrastructure environment, facilitation of digital skills
development initiatives and with domestic stakeholders, it would address supply-side constraints to enhance the attractiveness of the sector.
InvestSA has held targeted investment drives geared at growing uptake and usage of digital services that will support ICT-enabled solutions across
South African industrial sectors.
The award not only highlighted South Africa’s propensity to exploit opportunities offered by cloud computing, the Internet of Things and machine
learning but supported South Africa’s endeavours in 4IR industries, said Minister Davies.
SAnews.gov.za

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  109
Sign up
@DIRCO_ZA thedircoza DIRCOza DIRCO ZA DIRCOZA
Log in
WTMA19 shakes up its responsible tourism programme as Grootbos takes top honours
The 2019 African Responsible Tourism Awards winners were announced on the opening day of World Travel Market Africa (WTMA), with overall
winner Grootbos Private Nature Reserve seen as the benchmark of eco-tourism standards across the continent right now.
The African Responsible Tourism Awards, in its fifth year at WTMA, celebrate the commitment and efforts of individuals, organisations and
destinations that use tourism to make Africa better.
Speaking at the awards ceremony, former Tourism Minister, Derek Hanekom, stated that the importance of being mindful of the power of tourism,
to build as well as destroy, was crucial.
Minister Hanekom commended the winners, saying it does not work being “only a little bit responsible in our tourism principles, but requires
organisations to place it at the heart of what the industry stands for”.
A total of 15 organisations were shortlisted:
• !Khwa ttu San Culture and Education Centre (South Africa) @KhwattuSan
• Anvil Bay (Mozambique) @Anvil_Bay
• Cape Town Marathon (South Africa) @ctmarathon
• Dorobo Tours and Safaris (Tanzania) @dorobosafari
• Events Greening Forum 2018 Conference & Master Class (South Africa) @EventGreening
• GCIP-SA Annual Awards 2017 (South Africa) @CleantechSA
• Great Plains Conservation Sapi Reserve (Zimbabwe) @GreatPlainsCons
• Grootbos Private Nature Reserve (South Africa) @Grootbos (Overall winner)
• Mdumbi Green Fair Festival (South Africa) @Mdumbi Green Fair
• Meetings Africa (South Africa) @SA_NCB
• Panthera Africa Big Cat Sanctuary (South Africa) @PantheraAfrica
• Table Mountain Aerial Cableway Company (South Africa) @TableMountainCa
• Two Oceans Aquarium (South Africa) @2OceansAquarium
• Ultimate Safaris’ //HUAB Under Canvas (Namibia) @UltimateSafari1
• WOWZULU Isandlwana (South Africa) @wowzulu
As the main sponsor of the awards, Wesgro’s Tim Harris highlighted the trend of a calculated world dominated by technology advancement, which
indirectly made the untapped potential of Africa even more appealing.
www.traveller24.co.za

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  110
Flying
the ﬂag
President Ramaphosa and Caster Semenya named on Times 100 Most Inﬂuential List
S
outh Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa
and record-breaking athlete Caster
Semenya have been named among TIME
Magazine’s 100 Most Influential People of
2019.
The annual prestigious list, published by the
international magazine, includes TIME’s “most
influential pioneers, leaders, titans, artists and
icons of 2019”.
President Ramaphosa was named in
the Leaders Category alongside America’s
President Donald Trump and Swedish
schoolgirl and climate activist, Greta Thunberg.
Semenya was named in the Icons Category,
alongside America’s former First Lady, Michelle
Obama, and singer Lady Gaga.
Other inclusions from Africa include
Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and
Egypt’s football star Mohamed Salah.
www.sapeople.com

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  111
FLYING THE FLAG
O
n 16 May 2019, South African Saray
Khumalo reached the highest point on
the planet, becoming the first black African
woman to scale Mount Everest.
The business executive reached the summit
in the early hours of the morning. This was her
fourth attempt at climbing Mount Everest.
In a previous attempt in May 2017, Khumalo
had to be rescued from Mount Everest by
helicopter.
Since then, around 800 people have attempted
to climb Mount Everest annually. More than 296
people have died trying to climb it.
Born in Zambia, with a Rwandan bloodline
and now a South African, she has achieved her
goal of becoming the first black woman from
Africa to summit Mount Everest.
In 2012, Saray summited Mount Kilimanjaro
and in the process, raised funds for the
Lunchbox Fund.
The mountaineering passion took hold
and she embarked on a journey to climb the
highest peak on each continent, not for herself
but the education of African children.
She summited Mount Elbrus in 2014 and
Mount Aconcagua in 2015.
She became a Nelson Mandela Libraries
Ambassador and raised nearly R1 million for
school libraries. After being on Everest during
both the Serac fall (2014) and the earthquake
(2015), she reached the south summit in 2017.
Through pure perseverance, grit and
courage she decided to return to Mount
Everest in 2019. During this expedition, she
supported the Dr Thandi Ndlovu Foundation.
www.news24.com
She was injured during inclement weather
while trying to reach the summit, Netwerk24
reported. Her previous attempts were
scuppered by an earthquake in Nepal and an
avalanche.
Sir Edmund Hillary and Nepalese Sherpa
mountaineer Tenzing Norgay were the first
people to reach the mountain’s summit on
29 May 1953.
Saray Khumalo becomes ﬁrst black South African woman to conquer Mount Everest
SA golf prodigy impresses at Kids Australian Open
SA kitesurfer wins 2019 Extreme Crown
S
outh Africa’s golf prodigy, Simthandile
Tshabalala, ended the 2019 Australian
Open at the Riverside Oaks Golf Resort with a
top-5 finish on Sunday, 7 April 2019.
Tshabalala, who played in the Boys
under-7 category, carded 39 and 38 to finish
on 77, 5-over par and in fourth place.
The seven-year-old was the sole South
African representative in the US Kids Golf
S
outh African kitesurfer, Ross-Dillon
Player, came out on top in an extreme
international competition on a wild day in
Zandvoort, Netherlands, 9 June 2019.
After a two-year wait, wind and waves
finally aligned to create perfect conditions
for the extreme kitesurfing competition Red
Partner Championship, which was played over
two rounds of nine holes each.
Australian Jay Deoskar won the title after
posting 35 and 32 to finish on 5-under, 67.
“I am so proud of you my son, well played
and a top 5 finish is all I asked for and you did
it. Very proud dad. Thank you South Africa for
all your support.” #SimTiger @tiger_sim pic.
twitter.com/jOsa1VMFgP.
www.sport24.co.za
The final heat saw two South Africans,
Ross-Dillon Player and Oswald Smith, pitted
against local favourite, Lasse Walker, and
Spain-based Liam Whaley.
Player laid down a strong early marker
and held on to top spot throughout what
was an extremely close finale. He eventually
finished with a 7.90, just 0.3 points ahead of
compatriot Smith.
Speaking after the event, a clearly
emotional Player said: “Coming from the first
round I thought I was going home, but after
that I won every heat. That’s four heats. I can’t
believe it, it just went so well.”
www.sapeople.com
Bull Megaloop, with the young South African
claiming the 2019 crown.
The event was only confirmed on the
Thursday before, when the weekend weather
forecasts predicted winds of over 40 knots
would hit the Dutch coast at Zandvoort.
This gave the invited field of 16 international
kiteboarders just 48 hours to make their way
to the venue.
The participating athletes this year came
from France, South Africa, Poland, Denmark
and the Netherlands.
Over 8 000 fans defied force-nine gale
conditions to turn out to watch the action, with
riders boosting up to 15m vertically and 50m
in distance.

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  112
SA student shines in Germany at Future Leaders Forum
S
outh African student Emilé Coetzee
made her university and country proud
on 22 May 2019 as she was crowned the
winner of the Future Leaders Forum at
the World Exhibition for Incentive Travel,
Meetings and Events (IMEX) in Frankfurt,
Germany, May 2019.
The North West University student beat fi  ve
other international fi  nalists to scoop the prize
– a scholarship at the MPI Foundation/Maritz
Global Events School, and a trip to New York
to present her award-winning idea at a lavish
gala dinner.
The competition was to present ideas that
could ensure food security in the future.
Coetzee’s concept – called “Forbidden
Fruit” – was based on consuming wild plants,
like nutritious weeds in the garden. According
to South African Tourism, her concept was
“simple yet so effective” and it blew the judges
away.
“In the context of food, South Africa is very
[diverse]. It is something unique we can give to
the rest of world in terms of our conservation,”
she said.
Coetzee formulated her concept after realising
that the other fi  nalists would incorporate
technology into their solutions, “like how meat
will be produced in technological ways”.
She then looked at South Africa as a whole
and concluded: “All of us want to live more
sustainably and do not want GMO in our foods.
So, I thought of forbidden fruit, which goes
back to where it all started, to [teach] people to
harvest wild food. It can be more sustainable
than technology-driven food.”
As she says: “The weeds in your garden;
not all of it is poisonous. It might just make a
tasty salad.” Coetzee believes South Africa is
one of the “breadwinners” for Africa’s tourism
and meetings industries, and knows that by
being at IMEX and representing Africa as a
whole, it’ll bring new visitors to the continent.
South African Tourism’s Chief Convention
Bureau Offi  cer, Amanda Kotze-Nhlapo, was
at the gala dinner where Coetzee received her
award.
“This is an extremely proud moment for
us to see such talent from the South African
tourism industry shine on the global stage,”
said Kotze-Nhlapo. “Credit must also go to the
Tourism Faculty at North West University as
Emile is the third student from the university to
have won this prestigious award in the last fi  ve
years.”
www.sapeople.com
SA entry ranks in Top 10 in the “Oscars” of tourism ﬁ  lms
T
  he beauty of South Africa is being
represented on the worldwide stage with
SA Tourism’s heartwarming Meet South Africa
promotional video.
It’s ranking at number 10 on the
International Committee of Tourism Film
Festivals’ (CIFFT) list of the world’s best
tourism fi  lms. Films receive points on how
well they do at various tourism fi  lm festivals
around the world, and at the end of the year,
the number one fi  lm is honoured at an event
in Vienna, Austria.
South Africa’s inclusion was a sensational
success when it came out in 2017 – following
the story of a traditional South African
dressmaker travelling the country to fi  nd
inspiration for a wedding dress. Since it was
released, the short version has been viewed
69 million times on YouTube, with the longer
10-minute fi  lm raking in two million views and
the German version standing at 4.3 million
views.
Another South African fi  lm that is on the
ranking’s list, sharing the 19th spot with a
few other fi  lms, is called Andrew Bona. It was
produced by Bruce Buttery of Panga, and
follows a wildlife artist in his search for the
perfect subjects in the bush.
CIFFT has been around since 1989 and
provides support to festivals that focus on the
audiovisual aspect of tourism marketing. The
Grand Prix CIFFT Circuit is made up of 19
festivals from around the world that contribute
to a fi  lm’s ranking.
One of the members is the International
Tourism Film Festival Africa, which will be
launching in South Africa in November, and
entries are now open.
Traveller24
FLYING THE FLAG

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  113
19 Squadron Oryx pilot nominated for top UN Peacekeeping Medal
A
The phrases “remarkable courage”
and “extraordinary threat” written by no
less a person than the United Nations (UN)
Secretary-General do not affect the man they
were written for. Just the opposite, he was
doing his job and that it meant coming under
enemy fire was part of the package.
That in a nutshell sums up the approach
and attitude of SA Air Force (SAAF) helicopter
pilot Lieutenant Colonel Stefan King, second
in command of 19 Squadron based at AFB
Hoedspruit in Limpopo.
He was nominated for the Captain Mbaye
Diagne Medal for Exceptional Courage, the
UN’s highest peacekeeping award. This year,
the medal was presented posthumously
to Malawian peacekeeper private Chancy
Chitete, who saved a wounded colleague’s
SA’s Sanesha Naicker named Leading Female Pioneer in Breast Cancer Research
A
ward-winning South African researcher
Sanesha Naicker has been named
Leading Female Pioneer in Breast Cancer
Research 2019 by GHP (Global Health and
Pharma) Magazine. Naicker is one of the
awardees in the international magazine’s
Alternative Medicine and Holistic Health
Awards.
GHP said that the renowned researcher,
who hails from Chatsworth, is a “young
independent breast cancer researcher driving
change within the global oncology market and
aiding in the understanding of cancer through
her work”.
Winning prestigious awards is nothing
new for Naicker who was honoured by the
International Journal of Palliative Nursing
Awards in 2015 when she was a doctoral
researcher undertaking a Master’s/Doctorate
project on young women with breast cancer.
A task that entailed her venturing into remote
villages in order to gain information from
scratch.
Last year, Naicker won two awards at the
Divas of Colour Awards: International Woman
of the Year and Leading Woman of the Year
for 2018.
According to the Chatsworth Rising Sun,
Naicker is an “accomplished inspirational,
spiritual and humble individual”.
She attributes her achievements to God, her
relatives and “sheer hard work”.
www.sapeople.com
life at the expense of his own during a firefight
against militia in the Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC).
King has been flying military helicopters
since 2003 and is current on both the Agusta
A109 light utility helicopter and the Oryx
medium transport, in service with the SAAF
Combined Helicopter Unit in the DRC as part
of the UN mission’s Force Intervention Brigade
(FIB).
He was commander of Oryx (tail number
1227), which had flown a routine ferry mission
and landed at Goma just as dusk was settling
on the night of 14 November last year. Before
shutdown was complete, he was contacted
via the external communications plug-in with
Brigadier General Njabulo Dube, the South
African FIB commander.
“It was explained that some of our forces
involved in a major UN operation had come
under heavy fire in a multipronged attack.
Would I please go and assist in whatever way
I could?”
An affirmative saw King and his flight crew –
co-pilot lieutenant Ernest Hlongwane and flight
engineer Warrant Officer Fanie Jiyane – take
off with a British Army major as an observer
also aboard.
“We were there because there were no
attack helicopters that could be deployed in
support and our job was to put up a show of
force of some sort,” King explained.
This saw the flight crew don NVGs (night
vision goggles) and head towards a point
where, as he put it, “the action seemed thick”.
The Oryx does not have any armament
fitted but carries well over a hundred flares
for self-protection. This time around the flares
were put into an offensive role and set off to
distract militia attacking Guatemalans cut off
from own forces while collecting water. This
only came to light when the helicopter landed
after the emergency sortie.
“We did numerous runs and each time set
off flares to deter enemy fire. Each run saw
the helicopter come under fire and at least
two RPGs (rocket-propelled grenades) passed
close enough to make our NVGs useless for
a while. After just over an hour of orbiting and
flare runs, our fuel situation reached the stage
where we had to abort.”
King was afterward told by some
Guatemalans had the Oryx and its flares not
arrived, they would have been “goners”.
www.defenceweb.co.za
FLYING THE FLAG

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  114
University of Johannesburg Sports Director receives top African honour
U
niversity of Johannesburg (UJ) official,
Nomsa Mahlangu, has been recognised
for her contribution to varsity sport by being
elected president of the Federation of African
University Sports.
The Senior Director of Sport at UJ,
Mahlangu won the election with a big majority
when it was held in Entebbe, Uganda, in March
2019.
“There were four of us in line for the post, but
Ibrahim Bangura from Sierra Leone withdrew
on the morning of the election,” said Mahlangu,
who became the first woman president of the
continental body.
The federation is internationally known as
Fédération Africain du Sport Universitaire, and
is an associate member of the international
body.
Mahlangu will hold office for four years and
is looking forward to using the opportunity to
improve the standard of university sport on the
continent.
“I believe there are some important times
ahead of us and our goals going forward are
to unite the varsity sportsmen and women in
Africa,” said Mahlangu.
“We feel that university sport needs to play
a bigger role in using research to improve our
overall performances.”
She added that she was honoured to be
appointed the first female president of the
federation.
“Hopefully, this can pave the way for future
developments because there is a need to
open doors for more women, to empower
them and to encourage them to hold these
sorts of positions of responsibility.”
The federation is the governing body of
university sport in Africa and was founded
in 1971 by 10 African countries to improve
the development of university sport on the
continent.
www.sapeople.com
Rhodes students bag international accolade for employment creating business idea
F
our Rhodes University PhD Chemistry
students have bagged the top position
in the 2019 Hultz Prize Challenge for their
business model for a waste management
system that will result in the employment of
more than 10 000 young people.
The four students, who go by the name
“Team E-Smart” are Nobuhle Ndebele, 24;
Lindokuhle Nene, 25; Reitumetse Nkhahle,
26; and Gauta Matlou, 29; and were the
only students from a South African university
FLYING THE FLAG
participating at the summit, held at the
Brookhouse International School in Nairobi,
Kenya.
Their business model aims to create
job opportunities for the youth through the
collection of electronic and electrical waste
materials and further recycling, repairing or
repurposing it into new market products.
“[This] so impressed the judges that they
were awarded the top position against 45
other teams from across the world,” university
spokesperson, Velisile Bukula, said in a
statement on Wednesday, 24 April 2019.
The Hult Prize was established in 2010
by its CEO Ahmad Ashkar and Bertil Hult
to crowd-source start-up ideas from young
people on how to sustainably solve the
world’s most critical social issues such as food
security, water access, energy and education.
“Today, the Hult Prize Foundation is
the world’s biggest engine for the launch
of for-good, for-profit start-ups emerging
from universities with over 2 500 staff and
volunteers around the world,” its site says.
“Training over one million youth in
impact entrepreneurship over the past
decade, the movement has deployed more
than US$50 million (over R700 million) of
capital into the sector and mobilised and
empowered millions of young people to re-
think the future of business as it continues
to breed disruptive innovation on college
and university campuses across 100 plus
countries.”
This year, university and college students
from across the world were challenged to
create a social-entrepreneurship start-up that
would result in more than 10 000 jobs over the
next decade.
www.news24.com

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  115
SA designer Palesa Mokubung becomes ﬁrst African to go global in H&M deal
S
wedish multinational clothing retailer
H&M recently announced its first African
collaboration with South African designer
Palesa Mokubung’s Mantsho label.
South African artist Nelson Makamo invited to paint for TIME magazine cover
Mantsho will be available in all South African
stores, exclusive flagship stores in the United
States (US), the United Kingdom, France,
Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Belgium,
Mexico, Chile and Israel, as well as all H&M
online markets from 15 August.
Mantsho is known for its vibrant fabrics,
bold and edgy designs with distinct silhouettes
and structures.
H&M Assortment Manager for
Collaborations and Special Collections,
Pernilla Wohlfahrt, said Makubonga was an
inspiring talent and personality.
Wohlfahrt said the diverse collection
of women’s wear and accessories would
introduce a dose of fresh fun and uniquely
South African aesthetic to H&M customers
around the world.
“We love how she works with colour, print
and silhouettes, enhancing the female shape
in a flattering and playful way,” Wohlfahrt said.
“At H&M, we value diversity of ideas and
designs and draw inspiration from across
our geographical footprint and we are so
excited to share this collection with our
customers across the globe.”
Makubong said the collaboration was a
dream come true and she was excited to
work with H&M.
“This project has been a valuable journey
so far and I cannot wait to share my passion
and design with fashion lovers around the
world. Mantsho prides itself as a ready-to-
wear brand and this exclusive collection
fulfils this promise,” she said.
The Mantsho label, which means “black
is beautiful” in the Sesotho language, was
established in 2004 and has since graced
numerous runways in Greece, India, the US,
Jamaica, Nigeria, Botswana and Senegal.
African News Agency
FLYING THE FLAG
F
or the best part of a decade, South African
artist Nelson Makamo has had a deal with
his 11 year-old cousin, Mapule Maoto. He pays
for her studies, and she agrees to model for
his colourful paintings. Today, with fans all over
the world praising his work, including the likes
of Oprah Winfrey, it’s turned out to be a pretty
good deal.
The latest painting that Mapule has
inspired is Makamo’s cover for TIME’s 2019
Optimists issue, guest edited by filmmaker
Ava DuVernay. Optimism is a natural fit for
Makamo’s work, which has for several years
largely focussed on young children from rural
South Africa.
When TIME first approached Makamo to
contribute to the issue, he had never produced
a magazine cover before. He was eager to
create an image that would introduce his work
to the world, he says. “It scared me because,
even though I’ve been working for a long time,
it felt like a debut.”
The final piece, an oil painting on canvas, is
titled “Vision of a Limitless Future.”
Makamo had been in contact with TIME
guest editor, DuVernay, since 2017, when the
filmmaker bought one of his pieces at auction.
In December, she visited his studio in
Johannesburg and purchased another.
The children (and few adults) that populate
Makamo’s award-winning charcoal drawings
and colourful paintings are drawn from his
interactions with Mapule and others in his life,
he says.
Makamo grew up in a small town in South
Africa’s northern Limpopo province. His artistic
impulse kicked in early. “I just had this urge to
draw, to make marks,” he says. That desire
grew stronger when he got into comic books,
and then works by Van Gogh and Picasso.
But, it was discovering African artists that really
made him fall in love with art, he says.
Visual artist Dumile Feni was a major
influence and inspiration for Makamo. These
days Makamo finds hope in contemporary
African artists, including fellow South Africans
Kemang Wa Lehulere, Sam Nhlengethwa,
Dineo Bopapeand Zwelethu Machepha, and
Nigerian visual artist, Toyin Ojih Odutole.
www.sapeople.com

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  116
FLYING THE FLAG
Zulu ballet opens in London
A
  Zulu ballet called Inala featuring South
 Africa’s Soweto Gospel Choir opened in
London in May 2019.
Inala, which means “abundance of
goodwill”, included world-class dancers and
is centred on the values of community and the
journey of life, conjuring up imagery of African
landscapes through song as a backdrop to
ballet and contemporary dance.
The Grammy Award-winning choir says
performing in a theatre show has been an
interesting experience.
“It’s not easy doing this whole production.
We are actually out of our comfort zone as the
Soweto Gospel Choir, because we normally
just rehearse and we don’t count steps or
whatever because it’s stuff that is natural.
“But something as technical as this production,
it’s quite hectic,” said choir member Diniloxo
Ndlakuse.
 The show, first for the ballet, debuted
close to five years ago at the Edinburgh
festival and featured another South African
music group, Ladysmith Black Mambazo.
Producers for Inala say they now have
plans to take the show to Asia.
eNCA
Doctors in JHB perform a medical ﬁrst in Africa
I
n a first for the continent, an expert team of
doctors in Johannesburg has successfully
performed spinal surgery on a foetus who has
spina bifida, an abnormality in the development
of the spine.
Specialist obstetrician and gynaecologist
and specialist in Maternal and Foetal Medicine,
Professor Ermos Nicolaou, and his team at
Mediclinic Morningside worked with a team of
international experts, led by Professor Mike
Belfort from the United States, to perform the
spinal surgery on the 25-week-old foetus on
Saturday, 13 April 2019.
Spina bifida is an abnormality in the foetal
spine where part of the vertebrae that form the
neural tube fail to close properly. The defect
and the subsequent “exposure” of the nerves
that run inside the neural tube lead to damage
of the nerves and neurological damage.
The delicate and complex operation
requires considerable expertise and involves
a team of experienced clinicians ranging from
maternal and foetal medicine to neurosurgery,
anaesthesiologists, neonatologists and
specialised neonatal ICU care.
Prof. Belfort and his team have been
pioneers in the field of foetal surgery and in
particular in the repair of spina bifida in utero.
As was the case of this particular patient,
identifying the problem during the pregnancy
empowered the prospective parents to inform
themselves about the condition and enabled
them to make an informed decision about the
way forward.
Prof. Nicolaou said parents could choose
to terminate the pregnancy or have the baby
and have a number of surgeries after delivery
to repair the defect on the spine, the brain and
the feet, and take measures to improve the
problem of incontinence.“The in-utero surgery
will provide them with an additional option
where a repair can be performed before the
baby is born,” he said.
Prof. Nicolaou believes that the repair of spina
bifida in utero may stop the inflammatory
process that leads to the damage of the nerves
and potential abnormalities.
As the operation is performed with tiny
instruments through the uterine wall and by not
cutting the uterus open, the recovery period is
a lot faster and the patient may go on to have
a normal vaginal delivery if she wishes. “This
is a very delicate surgery and the success
varies. In-utero laparoscopic repair can also
have complications such as foetal death or
premature labour. Careful evaluation and
selection of these cases are very important,”
Prof. Nicolaou said.
After the immediate post-operative period,
close monitoring of both the mother and foetus
until delivery is mandatory. Once the baby is
born, the neurosurgeon who was a member
of the operating team will assess the baby and
decide if further corrective procedures will be
required.
“The overall incidence of neural tube
defects and spina bifida is around one in 1 000
pregnancies. We have around one million live
births in South Africa every year, so we are
looking at around 1 000 new cases of neural
tube defects every year in our country.
“Our plan is to expand our foetal surgery
service to other abnormalities as well,” Prof.
Nicolaou said.
“A few examples of what the team would be
able to offer are operations on the heart, lungs,
abdomen, kidneys and bladder.
“One has to be very clear that operations
on foetuses will only be considered if the foetal
abnormality is so severe that it will lead to foetal
death or severe handicap,” Prof. Nicolaou said.
Cape Times

| FEATURE
Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  117
South Africa’s Lindiwe Matlali receives award from the Queen
South African Big Wave surfer Grant Twiggy Baker wins Ride of the Year Trophy
S
outh African Grant “Twiggy” Baker took
surfing’s Ride of the Year Trophy at the
World Surf League’s Big Wave Awards, held
at Redondo Beach near Los Angeles on
Thursday, 2 May 2019.
FLYING THE FLAG
S
outh Africa’s Lindiwe Matlali was
recognised by the Queen of England
for the awesome work she does as founder
and CEO of Africa Teen Geeks, a non-profit
organisation that teaches schoolchildren
and unemployed youth how to code.
Lindiwe is the latest recipient of a Points of
Light Award for 2019.
Inspired by her experience of being orphaned
at a young age, Lindiwe is inspiring Africa’s next
generation of technology innovators.
Her numerous accolades include
TechWomen Fellow 2017 and
Innov8tive Magazine’s “Top 50
Visionary Women in Tech To
Watch”.
Nigel Casey MVO, United
Kingdom High Commissioner in
South Africa, said: “Congratulations
to Lindiwe on receiving this
recognition for the wonderful work
that she does. Through her passion
for coding, she has reached
disadvantaged schoolchildren and
raised their aspirations.
“She has used her NGO, Africa
Teen Geeks, to bridge the gap
between affluent and rural schools
in computing education. Well done
Lindiwe on being South Africa’s
2019 Point of Light.”
Lindiwe said: “I’m excited and humbled to be
awarded with the Point of Light. African Teen
Geeks is a passion project, I often say that I have
two jobs, one that pays the bills and one that
feeds my soul. African Teen Geeks not only gives
the children an opportunity to learn new skills
but it also allows us to raise their aspirations, to
dream bigger and do more.”
www.sapeople.com
She works to eliminate the barriers faced
by disadvantaged communities in pursuing
science, technology, engineering and maths.
Africa Teen Geeks has blossomed into one
of Africa’s largest non-profit technology
education organisations. Since 2014, the
organisation has trained over 110 teachers
from disadvantaged schools and provided
computer science training to over 38 342 young
people aged six and upwards in 30 schools
across underprivileged communities.
Baker (46) received the trophy for his
performance on a massive wave in Maui,
Hawaii, last November and collected the
Biggest Paddle Award for the same wave. The
awards are not just about winners but also
highlight the bravery of the surfers taking on
the big waves. This was marked by Makua
Rothman of the United States being awarded
the Wipeout of the Year for his spectacular
crash in Fiji last May.
In March, Baker won the coveted Big
Wave World Title. The humble champion told
SurfLine.com afterwards that he’s “really not
the best surfer out there” and that there were
many incredible big wave surfers in South
Africa and the rest of the southern hemisphere
who just couldn’t afford to compete in the
northern hemisphere.
He did concede that he was “seriously
proud” of his win – his third in six years and all
in his forties! He put it down to working hard at
his mental and physical conditioning.
Baker said while he’s blessed to surf for a
living, it’s tough being away from his wife, Kate,
and daughter, Billi, and that heading home to
South Africa to “soak up the love that comes
with an amazing new family” is his best way to
celebrate his wins.
www.sapeople.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
118
LIFESTYLE |

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
119
 | LIFESTYLE

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
120
LIFESTYLE |

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
121
 | LIFESTYLE

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  122
LIFESTYLE |
AFRICA’S TOP FILM FESTIVAL
CELEBRATES
50 yeaRS:
WHAT’S TO CELEBRATE, AND LEARN
By Pier Paolo Frassinelli
Associate Professor, Communication Studies, University of Johannesburg
F
espaco and the 1966 Journées
cinématographiques de Carthage
in Tunisia were the earliest
concrete steps towards the idea
of African cinema on African soil.
These two film festivals were the
first major African events entirely dedicated to
showcasing movies from across the continent.
In the words of former director of the
Ouagadougou festival, Michel Ouédraogo,
Fespaco was created in a context in which
the African states had recently acquired their
independence and they wanted to express
their sovereignty and their identity.
To mark its half century, this year’s
edition was themed “The Memory and
Future of African Cinema”. In addition to
the competitions for the various prizes, the
organisers curated a retrospective of classic
African films that were shown at pop-up
outdoor cinemas throughout the city.
Watched by festival goers and Burkinabés
sitting on their scooters or plastic chairs,
screenings included Souleymane Cissé’s
Finye (1979) and Baara (1983), Med Hondo’s
There is no better place to assess the state of “auteur” African cinema
than at its premier showcase, the biennial film festival in Ouagadougou,
the capital of Burkina Faso. Popularly known by its acronym, Fespaco,
the Festival Panafricain du Cinéma et de la télévision de Ouagadougou
recently celebrated its 50th birthday.
Sarraounia (1987), Idrissa Ouédraogo’s
Tilaï (1991) and Gaston Kaboré’s Buud Yam
(1997). More recent works such as Zola
Maseko’s Drum (2005) and Alain Gomis’s Tey
(2013) and Felicite (2017) were also shown.
But if the canonised past of African cinema
was ripe for celebration, its present and future
looked distinctly uncertain.
A special table
The Ouagadougou festival is the place
historically associated with the African auteur
filmmaker. The city is where Ousmane
Sembène and the other doyens of African film
used to congregate at a special table at the
Hôtel Indépendance before it was set aflame
in 2014.
But who are Sembène’s heirs now?
Veteran Cameroonian filmmaker, Jean-
Pierre Bekolo, was at Fespaco 2019 with Les
Armes Miraculeuses (Miraculous Weapons).
The film is set in the small Free State town
of Vrede in 1960s apartheid South Africa.
Two French women, the black female
owner of a bed and breakfast and a political
prisoner, discuss freedom, Sartre and the
poetry of Negritude under the watchful eye of
apartheid state security. It won the Ecobank
Foundation’s Ousmane Sembène Prize.
Otherwise, it was emergent filmmakers who
got the lion’s share of awards and grabbed
audience attention. The top prize, L’Étalon d’or
de Yennenga for the best film, was deservedly
awarded to young Rwandan director Joel
Karekezi for La miséricorde de la jungle (The
Mercy of the Jungle).
A beautifully shot, gripping story, it brings
the audience deep into the jungle on the border
of Rwanda and Congo where two soldiers
battle for survival during the Second Congo
War.
The film also clinched best actor for co-
star Marc Zinga. The prize for best actress
went to Samantha Mugatsia for her nuanced
performance in Wanuri Kahui’s Kenyan
lesbian romance Rafiki, which has already
made history for being selected at Cannes
after being banned in its home country.
young filmmakers
The fact that these young filmmakers and
actors are bursting onto the scene no doubt
AFRICA’S TOP FILM FESTIVAL CELEBRATES 50 YEARS: WHAT’S TO CELEBRATE, AND LEARN

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  123
 | LIFESTYLE
bodes well for the future. But questions still
linger about the future of the festival and its
packaging of African cinema.
Is this the kind of venue where one comes
to see what is new in film production across
the continent? Is auteur cinema what African
audiences are interested in? How about
the videos eagerly consumed by Africans
across the continent: from the phenomenon
of Nollywood to the bongo movie industry in
Tanzania? Are the tastes of their audiences
catered for?
Perhaps a good way of answering these
questions is by looking at how the Fespaco is
changing.
Since 2015, films shot digitally have
become eligible for the festival’s main prize,
which was previously reserved for celluloid
films only. At the 2019 edition, the two movies
that got the warmest reception among the
screenings I attended were not the kind of film
one normally associates with Fespaco. One
was the Ivorian film Resolution, an earnest
denunciation of gender violence that had the
audience voicing its disapproval at the physical
brutality inflicted upon the female protagonist
and cheering her resolution to finally stand up
to her abusive husband.
The second was Hakkunde (In between).
It is the first Nigerian publicly crowd-funded
movie by Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards
(AMVCA) award-winning director and producer
Oluseyi Asurf Abuwa. This Nollywood-style
comic tale of a self-made man also got the
audience laughing and applauding. The
audible approval for both of these films was no
doubt a sign of the times.
The other issue that stood out was the
contestation surrounding how the festival’s
history and present are dominated by men.
After 50 years, no woman director has won the
festival’s main prize.
This year, out of a selection of 124 films
in competition for the various prizes and 79
not in competition, women represented a
small portion of the directors participating:
only 30 films in competition and nine not
in competition. But even though they were
outnumbered, women were not silent. Festival
events included a meeting titled “Where are
the women?” and a round table organised by
the collective “Non-aligned filmmakers” on the
place of women in African cinema.
A lack of focus
But perhaps the biggest challenge faced by
Fespaco has to do with the forms of attention
that the seventh art requires. The festival was
very well attended. The main venue, Ciné
Burkina, was usually packed. However, part of
the audience seemed incapable of focussing
on the film they had ostensibly come to watch
instead of the tiny screens of their cell phones,
which kept flickering and occasionally ringing.
I wondered why there were no pre-show
announcements asking the audience to turn
off their phones. It’s possibly because these
announcements don’t work anyway.
Maybe, if it is to survive and thrive, African
cinema must adapt to today’s audiences, digital
devices and forms of distraction. The Nigerian
video industry has already started producing
short films and clips that are easier and
cheaper to stream on phones. As Nollywood
scholar Jonathan Haynes commented at a
recent seminar, the “future is on Android”.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
AFRICA’S TOP FILM FESTIVAL CELEBRATES 50 YEARS: WHAT’S TO CELEBRATE, AND LEARN

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  124
LIFESTYLE |
T
he transparent nomination and
selection process encourages
debate around the definition of
beauty. For some, value lies in
function and social relevance; for
others, pure aesthetics are king.
“We want the public to decide what they
think constitutes a ‘beautiful object’ – and it’s not
just about what something looks like, it’s also
about smart functionality, or a design’s ability to
enhance the quality of life for its user or effect
Houtlander’s curvilinear Interdependence II bench was judged the Most
Beautiful Object in South Africa and announced as the winner on Friday,
1 March 2019, at the annual Design Indaba Conference in Cape Town.
change. In the selection process itself, we want
to foster a sense of appreciation, accessibility
and engagement,” explained Design Indaba
festival manager, Bev Cupido.
The Most Beautiful Object in South Africa
is a public-facing initiative that was propelled
into being 12 years ago by the Design Indaba,
which is itself heading into its 25th year in 2020.
Houtlander’s winning seating design is
punctuated by flowing lines and beautiful
curves with an unexpected twist. Not to mention
statement-making colour – a strident blue that
sits midway between Azure and Persian. The
bench is typical of Houtlander’s pared-back
aesthetic, but with a decidedly playful and
conceptual element.
Houtlander was started by two passionate
furniture designers, Phillip Hollander and
Stephen Wilson, who are concerned about the
human principles of inclusivity, environment
and legacy. Their aim is to create pieces that
endure. They explain:
South Africa’s most

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  125
 | LIFESTYLE
“We admire modernist design, especially the
Scandinavian aesthetic, respect the tried-
and-tested methods of centuries of traditional
joinery and challenge ourselves to employ
modern methods to create functional pieces
with a future heritage.”
As for heritage and collectability,
Interdependence II has that in bounds.
The unusual bench evolved from the design
duo’s initial Interdependence bench, which was
first launched at the exhibition Extra Ordinary
by Southern Guild. Houtlander then went on
to win the prize for South African Designer of
the Year at 100% Design South Africa 2017.
Interdependence II is the culmination of a
process of development and refinement.
The bench was on exhibition at the Design
Indaba from 27 February to 1 March 2019.
It was exhibited on the Artscape Piazza
as part of an exhibition showcasing all the
nominated objects and the display was open
to the public. Each of the objects on show
was nominated by a prominent public figure.
Interdependence II was nominated by Nandi
Dlepu, the Managing Director of Johannesburg-
based creative agency Mamakashaka.
Below is the full list of the nominees, as well
as the nominators:
•  African Bridal Dress by Mzukisi Mbane
(nominated by TV presenter Bonnie Mbuli
of SABC3’s Afternoon Express)
•  Cancer Dojo App by Conn Bertish
(nominated by Tabatha King from King
James Group)
•  Collective Amnesia by author and
playwright Koleka Putuma (nominated by
Jay Pather from the Siwela Sonke Dance
Theatre)
•  Copper & Glass Kettle by Ebert Otto
(nominated by Sumien Brink, Editor-in-
Chief of VISI)
•  Interdependence II by Houtlander
(nominated by local entrepreneur Nandi
Dlepu)
•  Nenzima Desk by Mpho Vackier (nominated
by interior designer Donald Nxumalo)
•  Okapi x Capsule – Yemasa by OKAPI
(nominated by style guru Felipe Mazibuko)
•  River Love Sofa by Heino Schmitt Design
(nominated by television personality
Zuraida Jardine)
•  Sounds of Sibikwa by artist Usha Seejarim
(nominated by Market Theatre Foundation
CEO, Ismail Mahomed)
•  Stellar Scintillation by artist Chris Soal
(nominated by Kaya FM Radio Presenter
Bridget Masinga).
SOUTH AFRICA’S MOST BEAUTIFUL OBJECT

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  126
LIFESTYLE |
The top Instagram sites in South Africa
T
he Gig 7 Travel team recently
announced the official list of the
Top 50 Most Instagrammable
Countries in The World 2019,
and South Arica came in fifth
place. Combining hashtag
popularity, survey results of Big 7 readers
and votes cast by a panel of travel experts,
the world’s most photogenic countries were
revealed.
Carefully chosen by a team of travel experts,
these are the 50 Most Instagrammable Spots
In South Africa:
1.  Bloubergstrand, Western Cape:
Bloubergstrand is a suburb of Cape Town
along the shores of Table Bay. The beach
at Bloubergstrand is a popular location for
a classic view of Table Mountain across
the bay and is one of the world’s top
kitesurf destinations.
2.  Sabi Sands Private Game Reserve,
Mpumalanga: The Sabi Sand Private
Game Reserve is the birthplace of
sustainable wildlife tourism in southern
Africa, and is the oldest of all the private
A beautiful photograph can be enough to inspire the trip of a lifetime,
which is why travel-lovers are consistently heading to Instagram to seek
out new and incredible destinations.
reserves in South Africa. It has only ever
been a wilderness area and is home to
a vast wildlife population, including The
Big Five, and a number of endangered
species. Flanking the Kruger National
Park, animals pass unhindered between
the reserves.
3.  Jacaranda trees, Pretoria, Gauteng:
Each year, from late September to
November, Jacaranda trees go into
bloom in South Africa. These beautiful
trees are especially abundant in Pretoria,
draping the city in a magnificent display
of colour.
4.  Mandela Capture Site, KwaZulu-Natal:
The Nelson Mandela Capture Site,
near Howick, is a cultural and historical
exhibition that is situated at the site at
which Nelson Mandela was apprehended
for his anti-apartheid activism acts in
August 1952.
5.  Orlando Towers, Gauteng: Once the
site of a coal-fired power station, these
iconic towers have been transformed
with brightly coloured murals and offer
bungee jumping and abseiling.
6.  Blyde River Canyon, Mpumalanga:
Officially known as Motlatse Canyon,
this can be found at the northern end
of the Drakensberg Escarpment – a
remarkable 25 km in length.
7.  Lion Sands Ivory Lodge, Mpumalanga:
The lodge’s eight one-bedroom villas,
secluded at the confluence of the Sabie
and Sand rivers, are the ultimate bush
retreats.
8.  Stellenbosch, Western Cape: The
second-oldest town in South Africa,
Stellenbosch is known for its natural
beauty and oak-lined avenues, Cape
Dutch architecture, history and culture,
and its wine routes.
9.  Lion’s Head, Cape Town, Western Cape:
Lions Head is the distinctively shaped
mountain slope found alongside Table
Mountain. The proud lion overlooks the
city and Table Bay on one side, and the
scenic Atlantic Ocean coastline on the
other.
10.  Sani Pass, KwaZulu-Natal: Sani Pass
is a mountain pass located in the west

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  127
 | LIFESTYLE
of KwaZulu-Natal, on the road between
Underberg and Mokhotlong, Lesotho. The
route up Sani Pass starts at 1 544 m, and
climbs 1332 vertical metres to an altitude
of 2 876 m.
The remainder of the sites are:
11. Mapungubwe, Limpopo
12.  Valley of Desolation, Camdeboo National
Park, Eastern Cape
13. God’s Window, Mpumalanga
14. De Hoop Nature Reserve, Western Cape
15. Bo-Kaap, Cape Town, Western Cape
16. Tsitsikamma National Park, Eastern Cape
17. Sodwana Bay, KwaZulu-Natal
18. Chapman’s Peak Drive, Western Cape
19. Cape Vidal beach, KwaZulu-Natal
20.  Diving Board, Table Mountain, Western
Cape
21.  Augrabies Falls National Park, Northern
Cape
22. Hoyo Hoyo Safari Lodge, Mpumalanga
23. Bloukrans Bridge, Western Cape
24. Nourish’d café, Western Cape
25.  Durban Natural Science Museum,
KwaZulu-Natal
26. Union Buildings, Gauteng
27. Robben Island
28. Buffels Bay, Western Cape
29. Drakensberg Mountains
30. Father Coffee, Gauteng
31.  Hole in the Wall, Eastern Cape
32.  Cape of Good Hope, Western Cape
33.  Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park, Northern
Cape
34. Otter Hiking Trail, Eastern Cape
35. Inanda Mountain, KwaZulu-Natal
36. Elands River Falls, Mpumalanga
37.  The Silo Hotel, Western Cape
38.  The Richtersveld, Northern Cape
39. Namaqualand at spring-time
40. Muizenberg, Western Cape
41. Hermanus whale watching, Western Cape
42. Moses Mabhida Stadium, KwaZulu-Natal
43.  Walter Sisulu National Botanical Garden,
Gauteng
44. Babylonstoren, Western Cape
45. Boulders Beach, Western Cape
46. Knysna Elephant Park, Western Cape
47.  Four Seasons Hotel, The Westcliff,
Gauteng
48. Nelson Mandela Bridge, Gauteng
49. Umhlanga Lighthouse, KwaZulu-Natal
50.  Kagga Kamma Nature Reserve, Western
Cape.
https://bigseventravel.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18  128
LIFESTYLE |
South Africa makes ballet history on
the Bolshoi Stage in Moscow
T
he word Bolshoi is known in
South Africa and associated with
beautiful ballet. Even the most
hardened non-theatre goers
know about it and would even
consider a visit to the theatre to
see the Bolshoi Ballet Company. What many
people don’t know is that Moscow is home to
many ballet companies and schools, and ballet
is indeed a very popular art form. When I was
sitting in the theatre, the appreciation from all,
The Kremlin, Red Square, St Basils and then, a dream come true, the
Bolshoi Theatre. This is what I think of when I think of Moscow, even
better, when I get to visit Moscow. I have loved Moscow since my first
visit in 2006. I call it ballet heaven, as it is home to the Bolshoi Ballet
Company and the Bolshoi Ballet School, where they house and train
arguably the best dancers in the world.
By Dirk Badenhorst
CEO: South African International Ballet Competition, Director: Mzansi Ballet
young, old, male and female, so inspired me
and showed me what we can achieve in South
Africa. We are starting to hear about more
support for classical ballet in South Africa. In
the budget speech of the Minister of Finance,
Tito Mboweni, he mentioned that he would like
to support a national ballet troupe – would that
not be wonderful.
Moscow is such a beautiful city, with
architectural masterpieces and a wonderful
way of capturing their history in museums,
galleries, sculptures and wonderful works of
art. Even when travelling in the metro, you
experience some of the most beautiful works
of art on the walls, great statues and even
chandeliers hanging from the ceiling. Even
the trains run in the light of the exquisite
chandeliers.
A boat ride on the Moscow River is a great
way to see more of the city and is one of the
few things to do for young children. My son
loved being on the boat, seeing the lush green
LIFESTYLE | SOUTH AFRICA MAKES BALLET HISTORY ON THE BOLSHOI STAGE IN MOSCOW

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  129
 | LIFESTYLE
(Royal Swedish Ballet); Audric Bezard (Paris
Opera Ballet); Daniel Camargo (Dutch National
Ballet); Vadim Muntigarov (Royal Ballet); Abel
Rojo (Malpaso Company); Daniil Simpkin
(American Ballet Theatre); and Andile Ndlovu
(The Washington Ballet).
A gala concert starring Benois-2019
nominees and the award ceremony took place
on 21 May 2019, and on 22 May, dance lovers
were treated to “Benois de la Danse to the Year
of Theatre”, a gala concert of ballet stars and
Benois laureates of the previous years, as well
as a performance by artists of the Vakhtangov
Theatre, choreographed by Angelika Cholina.
Myself as the fi  rst South African jury
member at competitions in Russia, China,
Cuba, US and South Korea, also became the
fi  rst South African jury member of the Benois
de la Danse when I was recommended by
the former director of the Paris Opera Ballet,
Brigitte Lefevre.
Andile Ndlovu relocated to Washington,
US, after being invited to a summer intensive
by the then director of Washington Ballet,
Septime Webre, who was a judge at the
inaugural SAIBC in 2008. His time there was
so successful that he progressed to the studio
company before joining the main company
where he is today.
Ndlovu returns to South Africa regularly
and to dance in numerous ballet SAIBC and
Mzansi Ballet performances and to work with
local dancers and organisations to inspire
passion and a love of ballet in young South
African dancers.
In order to achieve the standard of dance
and more of Andile Ndlovu, we hosted the fi  rst
South African International Ballet Intensive at
the National School of the Arts in Braamfontein,
Johannesburg, from 23 June to 3 July with
performances at the Lyric Theatre Gold Reef
City on 4 and 5 July 2019.
We had the world-class faculty of ballet
teachers from Cuba, China, Latvia, USA and
Germany. We will also in future collaborate
with the Bolshoi Academy to further the Cuban
methodology of Ballet Training for our Teachers
in the Townships Programme. This will be one
of the direct outcomes of the visit to Moscow
and my continued drive to ensure more young
South Africans have access to the beautiful art
of ballet, in particular those communities who
previously were denied that privilege, while
making it sustainable as small businesses.
Thanks Moscow for being such a beautiful
host and for
affi  rming your
place as one
of my favourite
cities in the
world.
gardens, beautiful homes and other gorgeous
constructions of the city. Sitting on the upper
deck with friends, Michele Dames from South
Africa and Olga Ostrovskaya from Moscow
and having a lovely lunch was indeed a great
way of getting to know Moscow.
Entering the Bolshoi Theatre is not easy,
by identifi  cation and invitation only, but in the
end, worth all the trouble. The Bolshoi was
renovated in the fi  rst decade of the 2000s
and is a true jewel in the Russian crown of
celebrating and honouring the arts. The stage
a dream to walk on, the seating glorious to
sit on and the general decor throughout the
theatre a beauty to behold.
I was so excited and honoured to be
invited to Moscow to join the panel of judges
that represent the biggest ballet companies
in the world and some of the most impressive
creatives in the fi  elds of Ballet, Design,
Composition and Choreography.
For the fi  rst time in the history of the Prix
Benois De La Danse International Ballet
Competition, there were two representatives
from South Africa at the Bolshoi Theatre in
Moscow: myself as the fi  rst-ever South African
jury member, and Soweto-born dancer Andile
Ndlovu, now US-based, who performed in the
prestigious event gala on 22 May as one of
this year’s 27 nominees for the Benois de la
Danse Award as Best Male Dancer for his role
as “Mercutio” in Washington Ballet’s Romeo
and Juliet.
The Benois de la Danse, founded by the
International Dance Association in Moscow
in 1991, is one of the most prestigious ballet
competitions in the world. The prestigious
jury panel that changes every year, awards
statuettes to the winners in the categories of
Lifelong Achievement, Best Ballerina, Best
Danseur, Best Choreographer, Best Composer
and Best Designer.
It’s like the Oscars of the ballet competition
world, where the very best are considered for
an uber prestigious and covered prize.
 In 1992, the Prix Benois De La Danse
International Ballet Competition succeeded
in obtaining the patronage of the United
Nations Educational, Scientifi  c and Cultural
Organisation (UNESCO) and French sculptor
Igor Ustinov designed the award statuette.
Ustinov is the son of the famous actor Peter
Ustinov and a great-nephew of Alexandre
Benois (1870–1960) after whom the
competition and prize are named.
In 2002, Russia’s Ministry of Culture
included the project in the Cultural Heritage of
Russia Federal Programme.
In 2009, Benois de la Danse was placed
under patronage and granted the right to use
the logo of the European Cultural Parliament
as a programme of international importance.
Over 26 years of its existence, the prize
was awarded in Moscow, in the Bolshoi
Theatre and the State Kremlin Palace, in the
UNESCO Palace in Paris, the National Theatre
in Warsaw, the Unter den Linden State Opera
in Berlin and the State Theatre in Stuttgart.
In 2002, the project, grown to the size of
a world ballet festival, returned to the Bolshoi
Theatre.
All proceeds from the festival’s gala nights
go towards personal assistance to ballet
veterans of Moscow dance companies.
The jury for the this year comprised
some of the most impressive leaders in the
world of ballet: Ted Brandsen, the Director of
Dutch National Ballet; Svetlana Zakharova
from the Bolshoi ballet star; Ana Laguna an
international ballet star and coach; Agnes
Letestu of the Paris Opera ballet star and
designer; Vladimir Malakov an international
ballet star and choreographer; Rachel Moore
the President and Executive Director of the Los
Angeles Music Centre; and Dirk Badenhorst
the Founder and CEO of the South African
International Ballet Competition (SAIBC) and
Artistic Director of Mzansi Ballet.
The Benois de la Danse dance nominees,
27 in total this year, included world ballet stars
Amandine Albisson (Paris Opera Ballet);
Ashley Bouder (New York City Ballet); Elisa
Carrillo Cabrera (State Ballet of Berlin); Maia
Makhateli (Dutch National Ballet); Anastasia
Stashkevich (Bolshoi Theatre); Yuan Yuan
Tan (San Francisco Ballet); Kaho Yanagisawa
Andile Ndlovu Dirk Badenhorst
SOUTH AFRICA MAKES BALLET HISTORY ON THE BOLSHOI STAGE IN MOSCOW

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
130
LIFESTYLE |

Issue 18 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
131
 | LIFESTYLE

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 18
132
LIFESTYLE |