seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_magazine_issue02.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_magazine_issue02.pdf
title: ubuntu_magazine_issue02.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

2 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 3Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
In the spirit of UbuntuIn the spirit of Ubuntu

7 Letter from the Minister

10  The Editor’s Note

Editor-in-Chief
Clayson Monyela
Managing editor
Michelle Greeff
Editor
Delien Burger
Assistant editor
Lebogang Maifadi
Design editor
Muzi Msimanga
Advertising
Zengeziwe Msimang
msimangz@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351  0919
Distribution
Thembakazi Zulu
ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1169
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Unathi Ngamntwini, Yolande Snyman,
Brand SA, GCIS, United Nations and the IAEA
Special thanks
Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies;
Minister of Tourism, Marthinus van Schalkwyk;
Director of the Institute for Global Dialogue,
Siphamandla Zondi;
Executive Board Member, Executive Board Member,
International Olympic Committee International Olympic Committee
President, International Swimming Federation President, International Swimming Federation
President, African Swimming Confederation,President, African Swimming Confederation,
Sam Ramsamy;
Ambassador Anil Sooklal;
Ambassador AS Minty;
and Row SA
Special thanks to advertisers
BMW, Old Mutual, Liliesleaf, the Department of Trade and
Industry, Mapungubwe, Brand SA, Gautrain
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the
subject line, your organisation, e-mail address and delivery
address in the body to ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Subscription/back issue enquiries
ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Publisher
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO)  ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001,
Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084,
Republic of South Africa, Tel: +27 12 351 1000
Printing
Uhuru Communications, Tel: +27 21 657 4800 No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without the written permission of the
publishers. DIRCO is not responsible for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend
and to alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary, all copyrights  are reserved. Views
in Ubuntu are not necessarily those of DIRCO or those of the South African Government. They
can accept no liability of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
UBUNTU DIPLOMACY IN ACTION ISSUE2
ON THE COVER
Main conference room at the
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation, OR Tambo Building,
in Rietondale, Pretoria.
This conference room has witnessed
ﬁ rst-hand the evolution, formulation
and execution of South Africa’s foreign
policy. This is where major agreements
are signed, sealed and delivered.
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
UBUNTU a Nguni word meaning humanity
Foreword
Diplomacy
14 The OR Tambo Building:
 A landmark in Pretoria
18 South Africa is getting many
 things right
20  A vision for South Africa’s
 foreign policy – Now and
 beyond
30 BRICS Bank and the global
 South
34 South Africa, BRICS and global
 governance
42  Promoting “Developmental
 Integration” in Africa
2626
2424
6868

7171
44 Israel-Palestine con ﬂ ict
 – A South African priority
46  The Forum for China-
 Africa Cooperation – Taking
 Africa forward
48  BRICS: A vital element of SA’s
 global economic strategy
50  South Africa: host of the
 African Commission on
 Nuclear Energy (AFCONE)
54  President Jacob Zuma
 on South Africa’s National
 Infrastructure Plan
56 Gautrain: it is about people on
 the move
64 Red Location: A symbol of
 our freedom
66 Tourism sector to spur
 global recovery
68  Table Mountain – a Seventh
  Wonder of Nature
60 Liberation history
 – The legacy of OR Tambo
62  Constitution Hill – Healing
 old wounds through a new
  justice system
5454
6262
7171
Feature
Lifestyle
7676
1717
7474
7878
6060
6666
70 Top 10 reasons to visit
 South Africa
72 Sport and social cohesion
74 Best crew in the world
76 Charlize Theron – United
 Nations Messenger of Peace
78 Africa’s fashion designers in
 the spotlight

LETTER FROM THE MINISTER
Foreword
Foreword
7Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza
 7
L
ooking at the achievements of this young
democracy over the past couple of years,
no one can doubt the key role South
Africa plays on the international stage or
its global in ﬂ uence. Worth mentioning is
South Africa’s inclusion in the BRICS (Brazil, Russia,
India, China and South Africa) grouping, our return to the
United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for a second
term and presiding over the successful and historic
Climate Change Conference (COP17/CMP7) in Durban
in 2011. Regionally and continentally, South Africa
played a vital role as the former chair of the Southern
African Development Community Troika and as a former
member of the African Union (AU) Peace and Security
Council.
We are truly grateful for the opportunities that we
have received to play a meaningful role in creating a
better South Africa, a better Africa and a better world.
South Africa has handed the COP baton to Qatar, and
we have pledged our support to the Qatar Presidency,
both as the COP17/CMP7 President and as a party to
the convention and protocol. Over the past two years,
a lot of work has gone into ensuring that mutual trust
and transparency in the multilateral process are restored
and Doha must ensure that it continues. All parties need
to reassure each other of the individual and collective
political will to honour existing commitments, while
working towards enhanced action. There must be a clear
message that actions are being taken to move forward in
implementing the Durban Outcome in a balanced way.
We stand proud and conﬁ dent as a nation that we have
delivered on our mandate to the best of our ability. The
Durban Outcome was a historic milestone and indeed
set precedence for us to work harder to achieve more.
 South Africa’s two-year non-permanent membership
of the UNSC comes to an end on 31 December 2012. We
believe that we have played a constructive role, pursuing
the interests of our country and the continent. A pressing
priority remains the reform of international institutions,
including the UNSC as Africa and Latin America are not
represented as permanent members on the council. We
believe we can play a critical role as a permanent member
of the UNSC, advancing the interests of the continent.
From 1 January 2013, South Africa will move on
to serve on another principal organ of the UN – the
Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). South Africa
last served on ECOSOC from 2004 to 2006. ECOSOC
is responsible for economic and social development
matters of the world. Membership of ECOSOC will
provide South Africa with an opportunity to contribute
to the strengthening and reform of the organ. It will
provide an opportunity to be located at the centre of the
debate on the global development agenda, including
the acceleration of the implementation of the millennium
development goals.
South Africa will also co-chair another strategic
platform for the 2013 to 2016 period – the Forum on
China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). As co-chair, we
will concentrate our efforts on ensuring a greater role
for the African Union Commission (AUC) in the FOCAC
process, as well as maintaining close relations with
the regional economic communities. We welcome the
positive contribution that the FOCAC has made towards
infrastructure development, a signi ﬁ cant increase in
trade and investment, skills transfer through exchange
programmes and people-to-people interactions. There is
no doubt that the FOCAC has contributed positively to
Africa’s development.
Our struggle for a better life in South Africa is
intertwined with our pursuit of a better Africa. Regional
and continental integration is the foundation for Africa’s
socio-economic development and political unity. The
strengthening of the AU and its structures is a strategic
priority in deepening the continental integration process,
with infrastructure development paving the way for
improved intra-Africa trade. South Africa is elated that
the leadership of the continent is united and has agreed
that, in this Decade of African Women, Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini Zuma should lead the AUC. The AU continues to
champion the African Agenda, advancing and defending
the interests of Africa in global affairs. At the top of our
agenda is the need to ensure that our continent remains
a zone of peace, stability and economic development,
translating into the betterment of the lives of Africans.
Foreign policy in the 21st century is multidimensional
as states use different avenues to pursue their various
interests. It is possible that two states belonging
to the same grouping will have signi ﬁ cant bilateral
contradictions and yet be able to cohere in pursuit of
the broader interest of the group to which they belong
with others. Looking at the achievements and milestones
outlined above, no one can ignore the independence of
South Africa’s foreign policy.
We look forward to taking on our new responsibilities
in 2013 with vigour and enthusiasm.
We also look forward to once again making the
African continent proud by hosting a successful Africa
Cup of Nations in January.
International stature doesn’t come on a silver platter,
you earn it.
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation,
Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane

Let’s talk foreign policy ...
10 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza
“Democratic South Africa’s foreign policy and execution
represents a break with the past – a past that had con ﬁ rmed us
as the skunk of the world.”
These are the words of Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane that
gave an introduction to the Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s Annual Report 2011/12 . The Minister then
continued to outline how the department consolidated its strategic
advances and areas of strength in its foreign policy, while it found
innovative ways of enhancing its performance.
EDITOR’S NOTEEDITOR’S NOTE
THETHE
“We will create a South Africa in which the
doors of learning and of culture shall be open
to all. We will have a South Africa in which the
young of our country shall have the best that
mankind has produced, in which they shall be
taught to love the people of all races, to defend
the equality of the peoples, to honour creative
labour, to uphold the oneness of mankind and to
hate untruths, immorality and avarice.”
OR Tambo, United Nations (UN) General Assembly – 26 October 1976
To call the past few months on the domestic and international front
challenging might be putting it mildly. Several events led to negative
and critical comments regarding the direction that the country was
moving in, turning a blind eye to the daily progress that is made on
the building blocks of a developing nation.
South Africa’s membership of BRICS, as was the case with its
Presidency of COP17, is critical at a time when much of the globe
still grapples with challenges that hamper meaningful economic
recovery. We have not been immune here at home to the aftermath
of the ﬁ nancial crisis and the pervasive impact it continues to have
on the global economy. Recent Moody’s and S&P rating downgrades
and The Economist cover story on South Africa are likely to impact
on perceptions of South Africa as a stable and preferred investment
market. The hosting of the ﬁ fth BRICS Summit in March 2013
presents South Africa with the opportunity to demonstrate that,
notwithstanding doomsayers’ predictions, we are up to the challenge,
and equal to the task and that our membership of BRICS is not a
coincidence.
“We are punching within our weight and will continue to embrace the
advancement of human rights and the promotion of democracy as the
central pillars of our foreign policy. We shall remain advocates of the
observance of human rights and the exercise of good government.
The era of African solutions to African problems is now.”
We want to thank all our Ubuntu readers for the compliments received
on the launch edition. The response was overwhelming. We hope
you enjoy the second edition as much as we enjoy communicating
with and educating our stakeholders on South Africa’s foreign policy
achievements, objectives and goals.
We look forward to you valued feedback.
Warm regards
@ClaysonMonyela
Foreword

The lemongrass ladies of Bulungula
When Old Mutual delivers strong annual
results, the outlook for these lemongrass
growers gets stronger too. With a R1 million
investment from the Old Mutual Foundation*,
the Bulungula lemongrass farming project
has developed into a Àourishing enterprise,
suppl\ing organicall\ certi¿ed lemongrass for
use in essential oils and herbal teas to local
as well as international markets.
+ealth\ ¿nancial results mean that Old Mutual
can do even greater things to drive and
support more community initiatives like this
all over South Africa. Initiatives that empower
people, create jobs, improve lives and enable
positive futures.

*The Old Mutual Foundation manages the corporate social
investments of Old Mutual South Africa.
For more information about the
Old Mutual Foundation, please contact
us at 021 509 3333.
“Thanks to Old Mutual’s support we now
have a market for 20 tons a year.”
Mam’ Nolesile Dodwana,
Chairperson of the Bulungula lemongrass
farming co-op, Eastern Cape.
Old Mutual Foundation
Enabling Positive Futures
Photographs © Old Mutual Foundation/Mark Wessels

14 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 15Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
OR TAMBO
THE
BUILDING
THETHE THE THETTHE HTHETHE THETHETHETHE THETHE HETHETHETHE THE TTHE THE THEHETHE TTHEEEHETHE THE TTHE THETHEHEHEHEHEEEHEEEEHETHTHEETHEETHETHEETHETHEHEETTHHHETTH OOOOOR TOOOOOR TOOOR TOR TOR TOR TOR TOR TTTOOOOOOR TOR TR TOR TTOR TTOOOOOOOOOR TOR TTOOOOOR TOR TOOR TTO TOOROOOOOOO AMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAAAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBMMAMBOMMBOMBOMBOBBOAMBOAMBOAMBOOOAMBOAMBOAMBOMBOMBOBOBOAMBOAAMBOAAMBOMMBOBOBOAMBOMBOMBOOBOAMBOAMBOAMBAMBAMBOMBMBOBOBOOMBOMBOA BBAMBAMBOMBOAMMBOMBOOOMBOMM OBOM OMMBOMMMMMB  BUIBUBUIBU BBUI BUIBUI BUI BUIBUBUBUUIBUIUIBUIBBBUIBUBUIBUBUUUUUIIIBBUIUBUUUIBUIBUII BUI BUBUUIBUIBUIBUI BUBUUUBUIBUB IBUUUBUUUUUBBBU LDLDLDINLDINLDILDILDLDINLDINDINLDILDDDLDDDDLDDLDIDLDDDD NDLDDDDDDDDDDIID G: AG: AG: AGG: AG: AG: AG: A:AG: AG: AG: AAA AG: AAAG:G: AAG: AAG: A: A:A:AAAAAG: AG AG: AAG: AA:AAG: A A: AG: : AA: AAG: AAA:AAG: A: AAA AAAGG AG: AG: AAAGGGG: LA LAN LAN LAN LAN LAN LAN LANLAN LAN LAANLALANLANLALANLANLANLANNLANNLANLANLAN LANALALALALANLAANLANLANLALANLANLALAN LANLANLLANLAANLANNLANLALALAANLANANALLLAALALLALAAAANLANLLLAANNAANLANNAL NNDMARDMARDMARDMARRDMARDMARARARDMARDDMARDDDDDDDDDDDDDD K INKI NKKKKKKKK IK INK INK IK INKK KK KKKK INKI NKK K KKKKKK IIKI NKKKKKKKIKK KIK INK IKIKI NK IIIII  PRE PREPREPREPR PREPPR TORITORITOTORITOR A A A
DIPDIPDDDD LOMLOMOMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMOMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMACYACYACYACYAACYACYACYCYACYACACYACYACYACYACACCCYACYCYACYACYACYACYACACYYACYACYACYACACYACYACACACYACYAAAACACYCYACYACYACYACYACACACACACYACAACACAACYACYACYYACCYCCYCYACYACYACYYACACACYCCACYCCYCACYACYCYCCYYACYCYYYCACACCYCCACCCACCCC
 DIDIDIPDIPDIPDDIPDIPDIPDIPDIPDIPDIPDIPDDIDIPDIDIDIPIDIDIDIPPIPPPPPPDIPDIPDIPDIPDDIDIDIDIDIIPDIPDIPDIPDIPDIPPDIPDIDIPDIPIPIDIPDIPDDDIIPPIIDIIIIIIDIIIIDIDIIIIDDD LOMLOMLOMLOMLLOMOMLOMLOMLOLOMLOMLLOMLOMLOLLOMLOLOMLOLOLOMLOLOL MLOLOMLLLLLOLOLOLOLLOLLLLOMOLOLLOLLOLOOLLOMLLLLOMLLOOLOOLOOLOOLOLLLOLOLLOOOLLLLOMLLOOOOLLLLLOLLOMOOLOLOLOLOMOOOOMLOOMLLLOLOMACYACYACYACYACYACYACYACYACYACYACYCYCYCYCYACACYACCYACYACYACYCYCCYCYCYYYYYYYCYYACYACACYCCYCYACCYCYACYCCYYYYACCCCCCCYCCYCCYCCCYYACYACYCCCCYYACCYCYCCCYYYYYYYYCCY
OOOOOOR TOR TOOOOORO AMBAMBMBOMBMBOMBOMBOBMBMBOBOMBOBOBOOBOMBMBOOMBOMBOM OOMMBOBMBBBMBOOOOBBB  BU BUI BUBU BU BUBB BBBBBBUBBBBUBUBBUBBU LDINDIDINDLDINDINDINNINLDINDINDINLDLDDINDININDDDIINLDDLDLD G: AG: AG: A: AG: AG: AG: AAG: AG: AG: AG: AG: A: AAG: AG: AG: AG: AG: AAAG: AG: AAAAA LL LLL LLLALAALANLLLANL L DMARDMARMARARARARRK INK ININK INK INK INKI NK ININK INK INNK INNK INK ININNIININKI NINK INKK INK KI NK IN PRE PRE PR PR PR PRPRPPRPPPR PRPRPRPRPRPPPPR TORITORIRIRIRIIIIOO AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

O
pened in December 2009 by President
Jacob Zuma, the headquarters of the
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation (DIRCO), the
OR  Tambo Building, has become a
landmark in Pretoria.
Able to accommodate at least 2 400 ofﬁ cials, it is one
of the most modern and beautiful African architectural
buildings in the country. This magni ﬁ cent building
seeks to portray the values that underpin South Africa’s
democratic dispensation.
Embedded in the conceptual design of the OR Tambo
Building, is the vision that embraces transparency, open
interaction and uninhibited communication, friendliness
and a willingness to assist people. It also re ﬂ ects the
prominence and importance of the African continent and
its desire to rise from its humble beginnings and to take
its rightful place among the continents of the world.
The OR Tambo Building mirrors a South Africa that
is striving for justice and equality in the world we live in.
Through the different designs that inform this African
building, DIRCO is celebrating the country’s rich cultural
heritage, its love for the gift of life, the richness of South
Africans’ creativity and the limitless reach of our human
endeavours.
As the materials and ﬁ nishings used attest, it was
a priority to build a sustainable and environmentally-
friendly building. A full water recycling regime is in place
and everything possible was done to retain the natural
veld and trees.
OR TAMBO
THE
BUILDING
A landmark in PretoriaA landmark in Pretoria
“This building is
a true reﬂ ection
of the stature that
South Africa has
internationally.”
United States (US) Secretary of State, Ms Hillary Clinton,
during her ﬁ rst visit to the OR Tambo Building during the
South Africa-US Strategic Dialogue on 7 August 2012.
DIPLOMACY
17
Issussussssssuue 2 e 2 2
 dipdipdipldipldipdipldipiplplpplpplomacomomacomacomaomomacomaoomaacacaaaa y iny inyy iny inyi n act actac actionionioion
 UBUNUBUNUBUNB TUTUTUTU
DIRDIRDDDIRDIRCDIRCDIRCRCDIRCRCDIRDDDDD COzaOzaOzazazazz
www.www.www.wwww.wwwww dircdircdddddircdircdirdircdididircdircdircdircdircdircdircdircdircidircdiid o.goo.goo.goo.goo.goo.goo.goo.goo.go go.goo.go.g.g.gggggg v.zav.zav.zav.zav.zav.zav.zavv.zazavv.zaaa
 @the@the@the@the@the@the@the@the@the@the@th@the@thetheh@thethehe@ DIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCIRCDIRCRCDIRCRIRRRR OzaOzaOzaOzOOzaOzaOzaOzaOzaOzazaOzaOzaaO
 thedthedthedthedthedttt eededdircoircoircorcoircoircirrrcr za za zz
16 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2
DIPDIPLOMLOMACYACY
OOR TOR TOR TOR TR TTTOR TOR TOOOR TTOOR TOR TOR TOOR TOO AMBAMBAMBAMBAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBOAMBAMBBAMBAAAM  BUI B LDLDDINDINLLLLD G: AAAAAAAAAAAA LLLLANLL NDMARRRRDM RRRRRRK IN PRETORIA

18 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 19Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Recent assertions by some, including an
article published by the United Kingdom
magazine, The Economist (Sad South
Africa – Cry the Beloved Country) cannot go
unchallenged as they are so misleading.
It is grossly incorrect to suggest that
South Africa is on a downhill slide.
The country may have received a
downgrade from two rating agencies, but so
have many other countries, even in Europe
and elsewhere. It is the sign of the times. The
world is going through a period of serious
economic upheaval.
South Africa was privileged to have
an icon like President Nelson Mandela as
its ﬁ rst democratically elected President.
However, this does not make the country
immune from economic, social or political
challenges at certain periods, more so given
the legacy arising from colonial oppression
and apartheid.
Despite the challenges, South Africa is
getting many things right.
On the economic front, the economy
possesses the necessary dynamism to
position the country as a competitive player
in a difﬁ cult global economic environment. A
strong vote of conﬁ dence in South Africa was
given recently by the international business
community with the country’s recent inclusion
in Citigroup’s World Government Bond Index
(WGBI). South Africa has attracted strong
ﬂ ows of foreign investment into its bonds
as investors have switched to emerging
markets. South Africa will be the ﬁ rst African
country and the fourth emerging market to
be included in the index.
The promotion is also signi ﬁ cant
because it can potentially bring down
the cost of borrowing for the country. An
estimated $2 trillion worth of funds track
the WGBI. South Africa has met with all the
required criteria for entry into the WBGI for
the third month running and, as a result,
has been allowed into the prestigious WGBI
Champions League of Countries.
Our success is also visible when
benchmarking the country against other
these are critical areas that can encourage
inward investment.
Recently, we welcomed the good news
that tourist arrivals to South Africa had
increased by an impressive 10,5% during
the ﬁ rst six months of 2012, which is double
the global tourism growth rate of 5%. This
means our country continues to be a popular
destination to many around the world.
At a social transformation level, in the
past 18 years of freedom, government
policies have extended basic services such
as water, electricity, sanitation, housing and
social security to millions of people for the
ﬁ rst time in their lives.
Dramatic achievements have been
scored in the ﬁ ght against HIV and AIDS.
We have moved from very dif ﬁ cult times
indeed on HIV and AIDS to a success story
in a short space of time due to progressive
leadership by government, assisted by civil
society, on the matter.
We now have 1,7 million South Africans
on antiretroviral treatment (ART), which has
improved life expectancy. We have about
2 948 public health facilities now initiating
patients on ART, compared to 495 in January
2010. One of our greatest success stories is
the remarkable 50% reduction in mother-to-
child transmission of HIV from about 8% in
2008 to 3,5% in 2011.
Remarkably, 20 million people have
to date been tested for HIV through the
HIV Counselling and Testing Campaign,
launched publicly by President Jacob Zuma
in 2010. This indicates that the stigma
around the pandemic is being eradicated,
which will assist prevention efforts. The rate
of new infections has decreased from 1,4%
to 0,8% in the 15 to 24 age group and looks
set to decline further over the coming years.
Life expectancy is dramatically improving in
South Africa due to these important policy
interventions and sound leadership.
At economic level, our New Growth Path
framework focusses us on a growth and
employment-creating path. Our intention is
to boost job creation in six pillars – tourism,
infrastructure, mining, manufacturing,
agriculture and the green economy. Out
of the six, we have this year singled out
infrastructure development for an intensive
focus, led by the President through the
Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating
Commission.
Building on the 2010 FIFA World
Cup™ infrastructure-build success, we
have unveiled a 20-year infrastructure
development programme that will cost
around R4 trillion over the next 15 years. We
will spend around R844 billion over the next
three years. We are truly a country at work
for a better life.
We are building and improving rail,
roads, ports, energy and broadband around
the country. South Africa’s manufacturing,
automotive, information and communications
technology, petrochemical and service
sectors remain sophisticated and globally
competitive and ready to attract local and
foreign investors.
We are also planning ahead, towards
the next 30 years. Our long-term planning
blueprint, the National Development Plan,
outlines our vision of dealing with inequalities,
social injustice and the developmental
challenges facing our society, leading
towards a prosperous society.
At political level, we have consolidated
democracy and have strong institutions
formed in line with the country’s progressive
Constitution.
We have noted the tendency of late to
exaggerate the debates and contestation
within the ruling party, the African National
Congress (ANC) as being a symptom of
instability. ANC conferences are no more
controversial than political dynamics in many
other countries.
The robust debates, though
uncomfortable at times, result in policies that
are agreed to by the majority, which ensures
stability and cohesion. The democratic
exercise should be seen as a strength rather
than a weakness for the country.
The violent wildcat strikes that we have
experienced are a worrying factor as they
should be in any economy, and the situation
is being attended to collectively.
The strikes should not be exaggerated
to conclude that South Africans’ economic
fortunes will decline majorly against its African
counterparts. Any such reckless conclusion
would not have taken into account the strides
that have been made in anchoring economic
growth that have weathered the storms that
even the developed countries of the North
could not survive.
While the banking system of the North
had to be subsidised by the governments,
South Africa’s banking sector demonstrated
absolute resilience and managed to shield
the economy from the economic meltdown
that continues to affect many developed
economies.
Another of South Africa’s strengths is the
ability of its people to come together when
there is a problem and search for a solution.
In response to the economic meltdown and
the wildcat strikes, President Zuma convened
the High-Level Dialogue on the Economy,
bringing together government, business,
labour and community sectors. A similar
initiative during the 2009 recession worked
tremendously to cushion the economy and
protect jobs.
The outcome of the dialogue was an
economic package designed to stabilise the
labour environment, improve living conditions
of mining communities and further promote
job creation.
More importantly, South Africa is
privileged to be part of Africa, which is rapidly
becoming the continent with the fastest-
expanding economic regions in the world.
This steady upward growth path is
expected to gain momentum and resemble
the long-run growth curves that were
experienced in East Asia over the past 20
years.
South Africa is moving forward towards
prosperity, under the very able leadership of
President Zuma and his Cabinet, working in
equal partnership with the other arms of the
State – the legislature and the judiciary. They
are supported by various partners in society:
labour, business, faith-based organisations
and many others that want to see South
Africa succeed.
We will face hiccups here and there and
now and then because of existing inequalities
and poverty and the economic climate
globally, but we remain ﬁ rmly focussed on
building a united, non-racial, non-sexist
democratic and prosperous South Africa.
One more indication of a country on the
move … On 8 November 2012, South Africa
was overwhelmingly elected by the members
of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly
to the 47-member Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC) of the UN. ECOSOC
is one of the principal organs of the UN
alongside the Security Council (UNSC) and
General Assembly. The organ has a charter
mandate to drive the Development Agenda
of the UN. It is signi ﬁ cant that South Africa
will be a member of this critical organ of the
UN at the time that the target date for the
achievement of the millennium development
goals  is fast approaching, 2015.
The Department of International
Relations and Cooperation will be the
coordinating and focal point on South Africa’s
engagement and participation in ECOSOC.
It is historic that as South Africa ends its
non-permanent membership of the UNSC, it
moves directly to serve in another principal
organ of the UN. It is con ﬁ rmation of South
Africa’s belief that that there is a nexus
between security and development. South
Africa will utilise its experience in peace and
security matters gained in the past two years
to pursue a global development agenda
with a view to contribute to the reduction of
insecurity in Africa and in the world. South
Africa will utilise its membership to promote
the African Agenda.
South Africa
is getting
many things
right
emerging market economies such as the
Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC)
and Next 11 countries (Mexico, Nigeria,
Egypt, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan, Bangladesh,
Indonesia, Vietnam, South Korea and the
Philippines).
In the recently issued World Economic
Forum’s Report on Global Competitiveness
that benchmarks the performance of 144
nations, including South Africa, the country
performed particularly well against the
report’s ﬁ nancial pillars. With regard to
ﬁ nancial market development, South Africa
ranks ﬁ rst among the BRICS nations, and
third overall in the world.
Other key areas where South Africa
performed well in comparison to its fellow
BRICS nation members were with the Legal
Rights Index, the Regulation of Securities
Exchanges, the Ef ﬁ cacy of Corporate
Boards and the Strength of Auditing and
Reporting Standards, where South Africa
was placed ﬁ rst against each pillar. Again,
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
SOUTH AFRICA IS GETTING MANY THINGS RIGHTSOUTH AFRICA IS GETTING MANY THINGS RIGHT
 DIPLOMACYDIPLOMACY
“Another of
South Africa’s
strengths is
the ability of
its people to
come together
when there is
a problem and
search for a
solution.”
By Clayson Monyela
Deputy Director-General:
Public Diplomacy
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation

A vision for South Africa’s foreign policy
– Now and beyond
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
20 21UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY –  NOW AND BEYOND
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY –  NO  NOW ANW AND BED BEYONDYOND
 DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY

22 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 23Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY –  NOW AND BEYONDA VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY –  NOW AND BEYOND DIPLOMACYDIPLOMACY
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
W
riting in January 2011
in a paper entitled
“Conceptualising
Multilateralism: Can We
All Just Get Along?”,
international relations specialists, Caroline
Bouchard and John Peterson, argued that “In
IR … theory tends to follow practice”.  I am
not sure how accurate is this generalisation.
Its value, however, is in encouraging
constant dialogue between international
relations experts and practitioners. It is when
the two are in conversation that the ﬁ eld of
international relations can grow and ﬂ ourish
South Africa’s foreign policy is based
on, and its conduct in international relations
is informed by, the fundamental values and
principles enshrined in the Constitution,
notably human dignity, the achievement of
equity, the advancement of human rights
and freedom, non-racialism, non-sexism,
democracy and a respect for the rule of
law.
In June 1994, the newly elected
President of the Republic of South Africa,
Mr Nelson Mandela, made a statement at
the Organisation of African Unity (OAU)
Meeting of Heads of State and Government
in Tunis in which he recalled the decision by
the Romans to destroy the city of Carthage
in ancient times and likened the destruction
of Carthage to the eventual destruction of
the African continent as its children were
carted away as slaves, its lands became
the property of other nations, its resources
a source of enrichment for other peoples,
and its kings and queens mere servants
of foreign powers. Africa continued to be
marginalised and underdeveloped.

African solidarity
Fortunately, this was not the end of the
story. Africa began to shake off its shackles.
Leaders emerged all over the continent
who rekindled the hope for peace, growth
and rejuvenation. In the words of former
President Mandela:

“When the history of our struggle is written,
it will tell a glorious tale of African solidarity,
of Africa’s adherence to principle. It will tell
a moving story of the sacri ﬁ ces that the
peoples of our continent made, to ensure
that intolerable insult to human dignity, the
apartheid crime against humanity, became a
thing of the past.”

As envisaged by Madiba in 1994, Africa is in
the process of being reborn.
Our destiny as a nation is linked
intrinsically with the destiny of the continent;
and our foreign policy actions are informed
by the interests of our continent.
Government continues to attach great
importance not only to the fundamental
principles deﬁ ning its foreign policy, but also
to dialogue with the experts.
 Foreign policy matters! Current global
conditions are such that the foreign policies
of many countries are focused on resilience.
It is common cause that the global ﬁ nancial
crisis – perhaps a crisis of capitalism – has
eroded the economic independence of
many nations, and that the global giants
themselves are negatively affected. This
leaves the middle-income countries,
including those who depend on the G8 for its
trade and economic relations, in dire straits.
South Africa potentially faces as much threat
as any other nation. Under such volatile
and potentially destabilising conditions, it is
tempting for nations to become conservative
in outlook, and put energy into foreign policy
projects that show little risk. This is something
that ought to be avoided if the international
community is to confront problems facing the
world.

The impact of international
issues
The big issues are difﬁ cult and unpredictable
ones. Unfortunately, in the period ahead, some
of these issues will impact on the conduct of
foreign policy of many nations. Some of these
issues are the November presidential elections
in the United States of America, and the
foreign policy posture that the newly elected
President will take. President Barack Obama
released in June 2012 his Africa policy, which
resonates with some of the South African
Government’s priorities.
The unfolding Eurozone crisis and
its impact on global trade and the ﬂ ow
of development assistance and foreign
development investment is another factor
that will impact not only on the role of the
European Union (EU) as an actor in the
global space; but also individual EU countries
and countries that are vulnerable to changes
in the global economy.
 The critical area of the Middle East,
with a particular focus on Iran, the Israel-
Palestinian conﬂ ict and the Syrian situation,
is set to continue to dominate global news
and the focus of multilateral entities such
as the United Nations Security Council
(UNSC).
 In the medium to long term, the world
order that is emerging will be a product of
how the global powers of the South will
assert their new-found role and how this will
balance with traditional powers. Energy and
food security will continue to in ﬂ uence the
On the one hand, it is the second-fastest
growing region in the world economically;
rich in mineral resources, with a population
that is continuing to grow.
I cannot agree more with the Zambian
economist, Ms Dambisa Moyo as quoted by
Jocelyn Newmarch in her article in the
City
Press of 2 September 2012, appropriately
entitled: “Global Slowdown: Africa’s Chance
To Stand Up and Shine”, that “The current
state of the global economy is bad for the
rest of the world, but good for Africa – 64%
of Africa’s population is under the age of 24.
The continent’s population is expected to
hit two billion in the next 40 years. 60% of
economic growth is accounted for and some
African states have higher productivity than
developed nations. Sub-Saharan Africa’s
economy is expected to grow by 5,4% this
year and by 5,3% next year.”
 On the other hand, however, Africa is
politically and economically marginalised
in the world. With three years remaining to
the deadline of the millennium development
goals (MDGs), all predictions suggest that
Africa will not meet the set targets.
 As for South Africa: The Centre for
European Strategy published an article in
its January 2012  Bulletin , authored by one
Adam Balcer with the title “The Golden
Age of Middle Powers?”. The author put
South Africa in a category of middle powers
he termed “soft power players”, which he
characterised as:

substance and direction of the foreign policy
of many countries.  Sustainable development
will feature prominently in the approach of
countries to how they can meet their present
development needs without compromising
the ability of future generations to meet
their own needs. Humanity will be more and
more concerned about the threat of climate
change and the damage to Planet Earth’s
biodiversity. Globalisation will intensify,
driven by technology, shrinking the world
into one single geographic space; impacting
on the behaviour of nations in international
affairs as well as the system and institutions
of global governance.

A continent of mixed fortunes
In the midst of all this is the continent, Africa,
with South Africa at its southern tip. Indeed,
Africa is a continent of mixed fortunes.
“South Africa’s
foreign policy
is based on,
and its conduct
in international
relations is
informed by, the
fundamental
values and
principles
enshrined in the
Constitution.”
The African Union headquarters in Addis Ababa, EthiopiaThe African Union headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

24 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 25Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
Union Peace and Security Council (AUPSC);
and the SADC Organ on Politics, Defence
and Security.
The election of Dr Nkosaza Dlamini
Zuma to the Chairpersonship of the AU
Commission is one example of the country’s
readiness and commitment to playing its
part in strengthening continental, regional
organisations. We will give her all the
necessary support, knowing very well that
she is now an international civil servant in
the employ of 54 nations that are members
of the AU.
The importance South Africa attaches
to the development of the continent was
demonstrated when President Jacob
Zuma, with the support of his colleagues,
took the initiative to escalate our collective
focus on infrastructure to the level of
“Free market economies, which despite
some shortcomings, are associated with the
West, but provide independent foreign policy
based ﬁ rst of all on soft power. Their political
and economic stability is on a comparatively
high-level. They have been democratised
over the last couple of decades but with ups
and downs.”
The author described South Africa as
follows:
“The Republic of South Africa has the biggest
economy in Sub-Saharan Africa, high
national income for African standards, and
considerable deposits of raw materials.”
Indeed, South Africa’s total mineral wealth
is among the world’s most valuable, with
an estimated value of R20,3 trillion (or
$2,5 trillion). According to some estimates,
the country has the world’s ﬁ fth-largest
mining sector in terms of gross domestic
product value.
 At the same time, the legacy of apartheid
is still with us, visible as it is in the ownership
patterns of the wealth of our country; and the
triple challenge of inequality, unemployment,
and poverty, among other things.
 This is the context within which South
Africa’s foreign policy is framed – we are
part of Africa with its mixed fortunes; and
a country that not long ago was subjected
to the apartheid system and treated as an
outcast by the international community.
Africa: the centre of South
Africa’s foreign policy
Since 1994, South Africa has had to ﬁ nd
itself and assert and defend its interests
in the changing global context and shifting
international balance of forces. The current
Administration continued on this path when
it assumed of ﬁ ce in 2009. Three years
on, we can look back and appreciate the
dexterity with which we maneuvered through
challenges to reach the point where we are
today. Four areas are worth mentioning.
 First, is how Africa continues to
serve as a centre and light of our foreign
policy, beginning with our Southern
African Development Community (SADC)
neighbourhood. Particularly, our focus
on Africa has been on mediation, peace-
building and post-conﬂ ict reconstruction and
development; active participation in ﬁ nding
solutions to developmental challenges facing
our continent; and supporting the drive
towards the consolidation of democracy in
Africa.
 South Africa’s efforts in the peace and
security area were undertaken in the context
of its membership of the UNSC; the African
heads of state and government. The
North-South Corridor that South Africa
champions through this initiative will
connect the three regions of SADC, East
Africa and Central Africa.  Other heads of
state and government who are members of
the committee that President Zuma chairs
are championing infrastructure projects of
comparable impact.

Diplomatic energy
The second area that I wish to highlight is
the diplomatic energy South Africa invested
in strengthening its bilateral relations,
especially with countries that play a critical
role in the international system. While
relations with traditional partners of the
North have continued to grow even to a
strategic level, those with countries of the
South have expanded both horizontally
and vertically, and an example of the latter
being the country’s admission into the Brazil,
Russia, India, China, South Africa (BRICS).
These relations are of equal partnership, and
will remain so towards the future.
President Zuma will host, for the ﬁ rst
time on African soil, the last summit of the
ﬁ rst cycle of BRICS summits (2009 to 2013)
in March 2013 in Durban. The BRICS leaders
will consider the grouping’s achievements
thus far as well as the future path and work
programme for this formation over its next
cycle of summits (2014 to 2018).
 The critical golden thread in terms
of the BRICS grouping’s deliberations is
its fundamental respect for upholding the
almost universally endorsed principle of
multilateralism.

A responsible member of the
international community
Thirdly, is the multilateral system where
South Africa continues to play its part as a
responsible member of the international
community. In January, the UN Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon outlined his ﬁ ve-year
vision for the world body in the areas of
sustainable development; preventing and
mitigating con ﬂ icts, human rights abuses
and the impacts of natural disasters; building
a safer and more secure world; supporting
countries in transition; and working to engage
the talents of women and young people.
South Africa is active in each of these areas.
 Finally, is the balance we have managed
– and continue to do so – between domestic
priorities and foreign policy objectives; taking
the country’s people along in what we do
beyond our borders. We act in a manner
that deﬁ nes South Africa’s national interests
multi-dimensionally and inclusively. Our
national interests are about our domestic
priorities and security concerns; our values
and principles at the heart of which is
Ubuntu; our Pan-African obligations and
responsibilities that have roots in the long
history of struggle against colonialism; and
what is expected of us as a global citizen.

A global system moving
towards multi-plurality
The past is easier to handle because it is
done and behind us; while the future stands
as a mountain in front of us waiting for men
and women of steel to climb it.
 This future will emerge from this global
system, which is undergoing reconﬁ guration
towards multi-plurarity. In this emerging
world, the South will no longer be an
opposition force in the international system
organised in the fold of the G77 and the Non-
Aligned Movement, for example.
The question is where Africa will be
and how it will be affected in this emerging
global balance of forces. Currently, Africa is
perceived as a huge market for manufactured
goods, and this perception will not change
in the near future. Africa sits on massive oil
and mineral resource deposits that are so
critical to the development and survival of
countries.
In their report, “Africa’s Natural
Resources in a Global Context”, Raf Custers
and Ken Matthysen observed that:

“While, on the one hand, it is widely
acknowledged that Africa has great natural
resource potential, on the other hand, one
cannot but regret that the complex interplay
between political and economic factors at the
national and international level appears to
make it impossible to use a more substantial
part of the revenues from the exploitation and
trade of these resources for the promotion
of the well-being of people at the grassroots
level”.

This is the phenomenon of the so-called
“resource curse”. The eminent economist,
Joseph Stiglitz, tried to diagnose this
phenomenon in his article aptly entitled
“From Resource Curse to Blessing”.
The reality behind the resource curse
is the fact that the interests around Africa’s
natural resources are externally determined;
the exploitation of these resources is export-
oriented, without any bene ﬁ ciation in their
country of origin; and that these resources
are not a factor in promoting local economic
development.
One good starting point for Africa’s
economic take-off in this century is to turn
the resource curse into a resource blessing.
The AU has an important role to play
in determining and shaping Africa’s future.
The AU emerged out of decades of regional
integration dating back to the Lagos Plan
of Action of 1980, through the Abuja Treaty
of 1991, to the Sirte Declaration of 1999. In
the 10 years of its existence out of the OAU,
the AU has positioned itself as a continental
and global player. It is present in mediation
and other peace and security efforts on the
continent in pursuit of African solution to
African problems. With the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the
African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM),
the AU has demonstrated its determination
to confront Africa’s development and
democratisation challenges. Its policy
of rejecting unconstitutional change of
government is a step away from the practice
of non-interference of yester years.
However, moving into the future, a
mountain of challenges is still before us.
The AU was formed on an integration model
based on the principle of self-reliance,
popular participation and regional economic
communities (RECs) as building blocks. We
are still a distance away from our objective of
self-reliance. Our dependency is undesirable.
For example, the AU and RECs like SADC
rely on the so-called “cooperating partners”
for their programmes. This is unsustainable
if we want a truly independent Africa.

The importance of African
multilateral partnerships
An important element and tool contributing
to Africa’s achievement of its integrated
development goals is the various African
multilateral partnerships. Currently, Africa
has active strategic partnerships with 10
partners, including the Arab World, the EU,
“While relations with
traditional partners of the
North have continued to
grow even to a strategic
level, those with countries
of the South have
expanded both horizontally
and vertically.”
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY – NOW AND BEYONDA VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY – NOW AND BEYOND
 DIPLOMACYDIPLOMACY
Minister Nkoana-Mashabane addressing the media at the AU SummitMinister Nkoana-Mashabane addressing the media at the AU Summit

26 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 27Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
DIPLOMACY
Diplomacy
South America, Asia (New Asian-African
Strategic Partnership), India, China (Forum
on China-Africa Cooperation [FOCAC]),
South Korea, Japan (Tokyo International
Conference on African Development, Turkey
and the United States of America (African
Growth and Opportunity Act).
 South Africa is currently Co-Chair of
FOCAC, and will host its next ministerial
meeting in 2015.
 To ensure that these partnerships
contribute effectively to Africa’s development,
it is important, among other things, that the
relationship should be that of true and equal
partnerships of mutual trust and bene ﬁ t;
not that of donor and recipient. Africa must
face partners as a united continent. The
approach to partnership should be one of
co-development that is human-centred.
A stable political environment
The ultimate goal of African development and
the prosperity of its people are premised on
a stable political environment. Therefore, the
challenge relating to peace and security on
the continent remains of paramount concern.
The AU has put in place its Peace and
Security Architecture (APSA) in an attempt to
address this vital challenge that has crippled
the continent since its independence.
 However, the APSA has yet to be
completely operationalised. Among the
shortfalls is the lack of an adequate early
warning capacity to identify emerging
threats. Although the AU has established
mechanisms that constitute an early warning
system, the challenge of the necessary
analytical capacity within this unit remains of
concern.
Equally important is the AU’s capacity in
security sector reform in both the pre- and
post-conﬂ ict contexts as well as the need for
effective disarmament, demobilisation and
reintegration of armed combatants.
To resolve situations of conﬂ ict, Africa has
to gain the support of the broader international
community in the context of the relationship
between the UNSC and the AUPSC. The
views of the two bodies are not always on
the same wavelength on a con ﬂ ict situation.
South Africa, through its participation in
both the UNSC and the AUPSC, has made
every effort to bring these two organisations
into a mutually bene ﬁ cial and reinforcing
relationship based on the importance of
comparative advantage and cooperation. It
is our hope that UNSC Resolution 2033 that
we championed during our Presidency of the
UNSC in January will go a long way towards
enhancing the relationship between the two
security organs.
Organisational capability
Two other challenges that we have to deal
with at the level of the AU if we are to build
on the achievements of the last 10 years,
is to enhance the organisational capability
of the continental body, especially the AU
Commission, and operationalise in full the
governance and development architecture
of the union, at the centre of which is the
APRM and NEPAD, respectively.
The organisational problems facing the
AU affect its effectiveness in other areas.
The AU Commission is not a toothless
transmission belt of decisions of the policy
organs of the union; it is the engine room.
Without an organisationally competent
commission, our summits will fall apart;
“The ultimate goal of African
development and the prosperity
of its people are premised on
a stable political environment.
Therefore, the challenge
relating to peace and security
on the continent remains of
paramount concern.”
decisions will remain unimplemented; there
will be no AU response to conﬂ ict situations;
and NEPAD and the APRM will die a slow
death. Fortunately, this is not the case.
We must therefore address weaknesses
of the commission and other organs of
the AU, taking as our point of departure
the recommendations of the High-Level
Panel on the Audit of the AU, which was
commissioned by the heads of state and
government in 2007.
The Governance Architecture, informed
by the Charter on Democracy, Elections
and Governance, has come a long way;
and today a signi ﬁ cant number of African
countries voluntarily subject themselves
to the process of peer review within the
auspices of the APRM. However, the number
of countries acceding to the APRM needs to
continue to grow; and the Charter should be
domesticated by all of us.
The development architecture will
be meaningless if it does not realise the
collective dream in the areas of infrastructure
and industrial development.
The two AU summits in January and July
2012 may have been overshadowed by the
election of the Chairperson of the commission,
but they did not fail us in taking the union
a step further in addressing the challenges
of the continent. Items that dominated the
discussions and decisions at these two
summits focused on promoting intra-Africa
trade, infrastructure development, self-
reliance, ﬁ nding African solutions to African
problems, and the need to rede ﬁ ne Africa’s
relations with foreign powers. These issues
will without doubt deﬁ ne Africa and the AU of
the next decade.
Building blocks towards
continental unity
Are the RECs succeeding as building
blocks towards continental unity and deep
integration? The answer to this question is a
big YES! SADC is one example.
However, the success of SADC into the
future will be shaped by how we ﬁ nalise the
vision and deﬁ ne milestones of the regional
body; how we succeed in implementing
the regional development package, around
which is the SADC Infrastructure Master
Plan; and how far we are prepared to go in
taking SADC to every citizen of our region.
Following the recent 32nd Ordinary
Summit of Heads of State and Government
in Maputo, Mozambique, several pertinent
issues were discussed and challenges
identiﬁ ed, most of which around the SADC
integration vision and milestone. At the core
of this is the mid-term review of the Regional
Indicative Strategic Development Plan
(RISDP); debates around the SADC Vision:
2050; the work of the Ministerial Task Force
on Regional Integration; and the Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, East
African Community and SADC Tripartite
Free Trade Area.
The mid-term review of the RISDP
process is due to commence soon and
will include a consultant engaging with
member states on their application of RISDP
objectives with national development plans.
This review presents the ideal opportunity
for member states to thoroughly examine
and re-de ﬁ ne regional priorities and create
positive impact in re-crafting our common
vision for the future of SADC.
The SADC Vision: 2050 concept emanated
following informal discussions among the
presidents of Angola, Mozambique and
South Africa on the broad direction of
SADC. During the recent SADC Summit,
there was broad agreement on the need
for a concept like Vision 2050, but member
states stressed the need to harmonise
existing work in the review of the RISDP and
the work of the Ministerial Task Force on
Regional Integration. This would provide an
opportunity to create a broader vision, which
would include participation at all levels and
from all sectors of society. In consolidating
Vision 2050, SADC needs to have a clear and
focussed industrial development programme,
infrastructure development, and address the
outstanding issues in the consolidation of the
regional economic integration.

Reconﬁ guration of the global
system
A critical challenge facing the multilateral
system, and the UN in particular, is its non-
responsiveness to the reconﬁ guration in the
global system.
The UNSC is the only organ of the
UN with a charter mandate to maintain
international peace and security. It is the only
organ of the UN with powers to authorise
the use of force against any countries in
executing its charter mandate. However,
the current conﬁ guration of the UNSC does
not re ﬂ ect the geopolitical realities of the
21st century. It still re ﬂ ects the geopolitics
of 1945 after the end of the Second World
War, in which the Allied powers emerged a
dominant force. When the UN was formed,
it only had 52 members and Africa and the
majority of the countries from the South
were under colonialism. The membership of
the UN has quadrupled in the past 65 years
of its existence to 192. More than 60% of UN
membership is made of countries from the
global South and Africa constitutes about
30% of the whole UN membership.
The UNSC has only once undergone
a partial reform in 1963 to increase the
number of non-permanent members to 10,
leaving the permanent category intact. The
anachronistic con ﬁ guration of the UNSC is
not sustainable in today’s world, where 60%
to 70% of its agenda is on African issues.
The UNSC is facing serious credibility and
legitimacy questions due to its composition,
in particular in the permanent category. The
composition of the permanent category of the
UNSC was based on the 1945 winner takes
all approach and perceived superpowers
of the time. The UN is supposed to be a
beacon of democracy and transparency
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY – NOW AND BEYONDDIPLOMACY
President Jacob Zuma at the  SADC SummitPresident Jacob Zuma at the  SADC Summit
The Department of
International Relations
and Cooperation
OR Tambo Building
460 Soutpansberg Road
Rietondale
Pretoria
0084
Private Bag X152
PRETORIA
0001
Republic of South Africa
Tel: +27 12 351 1000
www.dirco.gov.za
Follow Like Share
A better South Africa A better South Africa
A better Africa A better Africa
A better worldA better world

where all its members are treated as equals.
The current composition of the UNSC is
undemocratic, unrepresentative and not
transparent.
 It is for this reason that we call for
the urgent reform of the UNSC in both the
permanent and non-permanent categories
to re ﬂ ect the contemporary global political
realities.
The past 10 years since the formation
of the AU with its own peace and security
architecture have proven how signi ﬁ cant it
is to continue to be unwavering in our call
for the urgent reform of the UNSC. The
consequences of UNSC decisions are felt
in Africa more than anywhere else. It is
therefore important that Africans form part
of making those decisions. The UNSC risks
becoming irrelevant and its credibility eroded
if it does not undergo urgent reform.
Failure to reform the UN and the Bretton
Woods Institutions (BWIs) will erode the faith
that people have in the multilateral system.
Some of the sceptics use the stalling
talks at the World Trade Organisation, the
emergence of mini-lateralist bodies such as
the G20, or the continuing threat of nuclear
proliferation in spite of the existence of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty, as proof of the
ineffectiveness of multilateralism to tackling
global problems.
South Africa holds a different view.
The success of COP17/CMP7 in delivering
the historic Durban Platform for Enhanced
Action is one example of how nations of the
world can pull their heads together through
the multilateral system against common
challenges.
The G20 is not an alternative to the
UN, but a reinforcement of our collective,
multilateral effort to fast-track the reform of
the global system, including the BWIs.

 “There Shall be Peace and
Friendship”
The National Planning Commission (NPC)
in The Presidency has released a revised
version of the National Development Plan
(NDP) with a whole chapter dedicated to
South Africa’s foreign policy. The Department
of International Relations and Cooperation is
engaging with the NPC to strengthening that
chapter.
South Africa must come out of the
current transition to a new global order better
than today. The vision in the NDP report
is helpful in this regard. Government will
pursue its diversiﬁ ed foreign policy, standing
on its location in Africa, the South, and the
world; with bilateral relations it has built
over the years, dating back to the struggle
years; with a strategy based on the dialectic
of cooperation and collaboration in the spirit
of the Freedom Charter that “There Shall be
Peace and Friendship”.
 Our faith in multilateralism is unshaken.
We do not share the view that multilateralism
has failed; nor is multilateralism a “weapon
of the weak” who cannot impose their will on
others.
 The future is that of a better South Africa
in a better Africa and a better world.
A VISION FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY – NOW AND BEYONDDIPLOMACY

30 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 31Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
DIPLOMACYBRICS BANK AND THE GLOBAL SOUTHDIPLOMACY BRICS BANK AND THE GLOBAL SOUTH
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
T
he idea of a Brazil, Russia,
India, China and South Africa
(BRICS) Bank is now a huge
bone of contention in South
Africa (maybe, in other BRICS
countries as well) between those who are
skeptical of the BRICS’ ability to act as an
underwriter of a South-led global economic
development plan designed to help poor
countries cope with, and overcome the effects
of the current global economic crisis, and
those who overestimate the forum’s ability
to rewrite the history of global development
by turning Western modernity – on which this
history is based – on its head.
The latter sees the BRICS as a potential
counterpoise to the G8, which is seen as
a bulwark for a West-dominated global
economic hierarchy, while the former sees
in it a great promise that will not materialise
because of internal cleavages and an
uncertain global agenda. These positions are
replicated in response to the proposed BRICS
Development Bank. While they recognise the
aspiration on the part of the BRICS to take
an initiative, they doubt if the ﬁ ve countries
have sufﬁ cient cohesion in vision and political
muscle to make this a truly global game-
changer.
There is room for a constructive response
to this development which says, whatever the
motives of the plan’s initiators, the BRICS
Bank could become a catalyst for functional
cooperation, and alternative development
ﬁ nancing as well as new development
knowledge production that is good for both
the emerging and developed worlds.
In New Delhi, the March 2012 BRICS
Summit assessed the need for upgrading
South-South cooperation from mere political
solidarity and ordinary economic relations
to a high level of catalysis in the area of
development ﬁ nance in response to a
changing global political economy. They
considered strategies through which the
BRICS could respond to de ﬁ ciencies in
international development ﬁ nance in order
to provide developing countries with access
to new capital for stimulating their economic
growth and development.
For some time, the BRICS countries have
decried the unpreparedness of international
ﬁ nance institutions (IFIs) like the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund to
respond to the needs of developing countries,
especially during difﬁ cult times like the current
global economic crisis. These challenges
include the need for new and better funding
towards infrastructure development, industrial
production and beneﬁ ciation of raw materials,
boosting economic competitiveness,
human resource development, technology
development or transfer and innovation, all of
which are seen as critical drivers of economic
development in the developing world.
The BRICS are aware of the deleterious
effect of the global economic meltdown on their
own economies. Their economic performance
has weakened since 2008/09 in spite of
healthy government reserves, while the crisis
has also worsened Africa’s structural defects.
Developing countries are experiencing high
food prices, fragile stock markets, a credit
crunch, falling exports and other forms of
contagion. These not only limit economic
development, they may lead to grave social
crises in some developing countries. These
are challenges that the BRICS are duty-bound
by their elevation to leaders of the South to
respond effectively to. Smarter, stronger
and deeper economic cooperation among
countries of the South is one such response
and the proposed bank is meant to become
the institutional vehicle for this.
The same factors are putting pressure
on development catalysts of the South
like the Asian Development Bank; African
Development Bank; India, Brazil and South
Africa (IBSA) Fund and so forth to give new
meaning to South-South cooperation. They
are being called upon to deepen international
interdependence by strengthening
independent sources of self-development in
the South. With IFIs running low on capital
reserves and focussed on dealing with the
debt crisis in Europe, developing countries
have had to look for alternative sources of
development ﬁ nance.
Clearly, the BRICS see opportunities
to assume global leadership by acting as
a responsible diplomatic club of the South
through the establishment of an alternative
and South-centric source of needed
development ﬁ nance. As is the nature of
development ﬁ nance institutions, the BRICS
Bank may also become a source of fresh and
subaltern thinking about global development
and its drivers as well as about ways of
buttressing the emergence of new economic
powers through South-South cooperation.
Therefore, the alarmist characterisation
of this move as anti-West and politically
motivated is driven by a misunderstanding
of the fact that as they acquire more global
signiﬁ cance, the BRICS are forced to
assume greater responsibility for leading the
South’s response to a global economic and
development crisis. This includes a potential
to delink, to some extent, from the dominant
thinking and initiatives framed through the
Washington consensus and thus reject the
inevitability of the South’s dependence on
the generosity of the North both in the supply
of capital and ideas for development. Those
who already reject this possibility because
the BRICS have not declared their intentions
to delink from the neoliberal thinking and the
IFIs that perpetuate this have not realised that
efforts to pluralise the development ﬁ nance
environment weaken the dominance of IFIs
anyway, thus achieving in subtle ways what
they wish to see in more dramatic speeches
and actions.
What BRICS countries should consider
seriously in the process of developing the
Bank idea is how the Bank will ﬁ ll the vacuum
left by the IFIs’ ﬁ xation with the European
debt crisis by focusing on neglected sectors
By Siphamandla Zondi
Director of the Institute for Global Dialogue
“BRICS BANK”
AND THE
GLOBAL SOUTH
like cooperatives, small and medium
enterprises, small-scale agriculture,
informal traders and industrial production.
It should think carefully about how it could,
through strategic partnerships with existing
development banks of the South, provide
targeted and coordinated developmental
stimuli, especially in least developed and
African countries.
The Bank should be designed and led to
become a form of responsible developmental
leadership on the part of the BRICS in
strengthening economic development in the
global South rather than a mere show of
strength in the high politics of global reform.
To this end, the BRICS Bank should
harness opportunities for positively redeﬁ ning
the very notion of international development
and the relations between the periphery and
centre in the power hierarchy that underpins
global development today. It should also
develop space for individual BRICS to promote
developmental cooperation in their respective
regional landscapes, namely: Africa, East
Asia and the Paci ﬁ c, and the South Atlantic.
Alignment with the IBSA Fund will need to be
deﬁ ned very carefully.
The Bank is an initiative pregnant with
many positive possibilities, provided the
initiators conceptualise it as a catalyst for
South-led global development rather than a
mere counterpoise to Western-dominated
IFIs. It offers opportunities for South Africa to
demonstrate the regional value of its BRICS
membership and to buttress its regional power
status by tying in Africa’s developmental
needs to the BRICS’ agenda.
“The Bank is an initiative pregnant with many positive
possibilities, provided the initiators conceptualise it as a
catalyst for South-led global development rather than a
mere counterpoise to Western-dominated IFIs.”
This article was ﬁ rst published on www.e-ir-info.
Intra-BRICS trade expanded by •
28% in 2011 to reach US$230 billion
and is projected to increase to
US$500 billion by 2015
BRICS projected to account for 40% •
of global gross domestic product
(GDP) by 2032
BRICS engines of growth: •
2000 – 2008: BRICS contributed  -
30% of global growth
2008 – 2011: BRICS contributed  -
60% of global growth
BRICS’ share of global GDP  -
increased threefold over the past
15 years
BRICS’ share of global output will  -
increase from 18% (according to
market exchange rates), to 25%
to 26% over the next 10 years
and even to one third by 2030
In purchasing power parity terms,  -
it is about 30% of the world’s
GDP. By 2020, it will be about
37% to 38% and going up to as
much as 45% by about 2030.
Did you know?

32 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 33Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza

34 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 35Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA, BRICS AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
S
outh Africa’s membership
of Brazil, Russia, India,
China (BRICS) is directly
linked to the issue of
global governance and the
reform of the prevailing global governance
architecture, notably in the economic and
ﬁ nancial domains; the country’s foreign policy
prioritisation of the African Agenda; and
furthering its own domestic priority interests,
notably through strengthened intra-BRICS
economic relations.
Historic context
Signiﬁ cant historic milestones precede the
formation of BRICS. The global landscape
has undergone transformational changes
since the end of the Second World War and
subsequently the Cold War, as well as the
post-September 11 international events.
South Africa’s foreign policy has since
the advent of the new and democratic South
Africa in 1994, addressed the issue of global
governance and solidarity. The country’s
own unique history was testimony to the fact
how the international community could join
together to confront a common challenge,
namely the apartheid dispensation. As
a result, a new democratic country was
born, which also provided the world with
a successful example of how a political
transformation process could result in a
modern democratic and constitutional state.
Former President Nelson Mandela
stated, in regard to global governance, the
following:
“It is the ANC’s view that the United Nations
has a pivotal role to play in fostering global
security and order. But to achieve this, serious
attention must be paid to a restructuring of
the organisation. South Africa intends to play
a vigorous role in the debate on this issue.
The United Nations should not be dominated
by a single power or group of powers, or else
its legitimacy will continuously be called into
question. We hope a mechanism can be
found so that the Security Council can reﬂ ect
the full tapestry of humankind.”
The most in ﬂ uential political and economic
structure post-Cold War other than that of the
United Nations (UN) system was that of the
Group of 8 (G8), which was established in
1975, then as the G6, with Canada joining in
1976 and the Russian Federation in 1997.
Former President Thabo Mbeki engaged
the G8 to establish a dialogue process
with African leaders at the 2000 Summit in
Okinawa, which subsequently developed
into the G8-Africa Outreach process with its
African Action Plan. The G8 subsequently
supported the African leaders’ initiative to
create a type of Marshall Plan for Africa,
which became the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) at its 2002
G8 Summit held in Canada.
Referring back to the NEPAD in this
context, shows a clear agenda that argues
for global governance reforms in order for
Africa to be repositioned in the global political,
economic and ﬁ nancial system. There was
also an attempt on the part of South Africa
to organise a G8 of the South, but due to the
events of 9/11 in 2001, the global context
was not conducive to such initiatives. In
2001, former President Mbeki wrote to eight
leaders of the South and a meeting was
planned for October 2001.
The G8 developed another arrangement,
namely the Group of 5 Outreach, established
at Gleneagles, United Kingdom, in 2005 and
continued until 2009, which was intended
to establish dialogue with selected leading
emerging markets, i.e. China, India, Mexico,
Brazil and South Africa. The subsequent
Heilligendamm/L’Aquila Process followed,
which was however disbanded in the wake
of geopolitical dynamics arising from the
fact that the Group of 20 (G20) has been
designated as the premier forum on ﬁ nancial
and economic global governance.
The ﬁ rst Asian ﬁ nancial crisis of 1997
rejected the World Bank model and saw
new regional arrangements such as the
Chiang Mai, a multilateral currency swap
arrangement among the 10 Association
of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
members, intended to manage regional
short-term liquidity problems and facilitate
the work of other international ﬁ nancial
arrangements and organisations such as the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) to stabilise
the collapsing ﬁ nancial system in 1997.
The second global ﬁ nancial crisis, which
began in 2008 and which impact is globally
still felt, now de ﬁ nitively illustrates that the
global security and ﬁ nancial architectures
of the post-Second World War era are at
great variance with current global realities
and in need of urgent reform to deal with the
common challenges of humanity.
Foreign policy-making in the
21st century
Foreign policy-making in the 21st century
is a multidimensional endeavour as states
use different avenues to pursue their various
interests. There are issues that can best be
addressed only through bilateral contacts
and there are others that require plurilateral
and multilateral forums – this is not
contradictory. In academic circles, there are
various descriptions of this new phenomenon
in foreign policy such as club diplomacy and
minilaterals, etc. The important fact is that
South Africa’s participation in or membership
of these fora, is intended to forge strategic
and collaborative partnerships and coalitions.
Government also diversiﬁ es its foreign policy
approaches as required. These alliances
again contribute and provide perhaps more
By Ambassador Anil Sooklal
Deputy Director-General:
Asia & Middle East
Department of International
Relations and Cooperation
SOUTH AFRICA, BRICS AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
DIPDIPLOMLO ACY
 SOUTH AFRICACCCCACAACACACCACACCAACCACACCCACCACCACCCCCCCCC , BR, BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB BB BBBBBB ICS AND GLOBAL GAL GOVEROVERNANCNANCEE
34
 UBUNUBUNUBUUBUNNNNUU TU TUTU TUTUTUTUUUU
dipldipldipldipldipldipldipdipllpldiplpldiplplplpplpldipldiplppp omaooomacmacomacmomacomacomacmacomacomaccomaomacacomacomo cy iny iny iny iny inyi ny iny ininiy inyy iniinininny inininnninny inny iny inyyyy  a a aacacac a actctacac a acaaca ionionnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
 IIsIssuIssusssussussussuIssssuIss uuI ee 2e 2ee 2ee22e 2eee 222
 DIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRDIRCDIRCDIRCDDIRCDIRCDD OzaOzaOzaOzaOzaOzazaOzaaOzaOzazaOOza
www.www.www.www.www.ww dircdircdircdircdircrcdircirco.goo.goo.goo.goog oo.goo.goo.goo.gogogogogo.go oo.goo.gooooov.zav.zav.zavz av.zav.zav.zav.zazvzv.zavv.zavv.zav
 @the@t@t@the@the@thethe@the@the@the@the@thehe@the@thethe@the@the@@theh@thhthethehethe@tthe@ DIRDIRCDDIRDIRDIRCDIRDIRCDIRCDIRDIRCDIRCDIRCCDDIDDIRCDIRCDIRDDI OzaOzaOzaOzaOzazaOzaOzazaOzazOzaazazazaaOzaO aaaazzz

36 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 37Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA, BRICS AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
impetus to the core activities of the UN
system to ensure a more equitable global
system of governance. This impetus is not
intended to create another system of newly
privileged member states, but to ensure
that the fundamental reforms that the
international community undertake and can
agree to, also address the developmental
challenges of the contemporary and
interdependent world in a more equitable
and transparent manner.
South Africa’s own foreign policy vision in
this context is: “An African continent, which is
prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial,
non-sexist and united, and which contributes
to a world that is just and equitable”.
This new type of diplomatic association
arguably links emerging power bases from
both a political and economic perspective,
as is illustrated in the case of BRICS, which
was at ﬁ rst introduced as “a Goldman Sachs”
investment bracket and then evolved into
a diplomatic initiative. The other grouping,
the so-called CIVETS plus grouping, i.e.
Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey,
South Africa, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan,
is now described as the South-South
Development Cooperation Dialogue and
also brings another important perspective
to like-minded countries, strengthening their
cooperation in relation to the development
cooperation agenda of the South.
Shared BRICS principles
There are critical principles and values which
South Africa always underscore and which
is shared by our BRICS partners, notably
the importance we attach to the centrality of
the UN in global affairs and the principles of
multilateralism and the Rule of Law (which
includes International Law).
The following are relevant extracts from
the Third BRICS Summit and its Sanya
Declaration in this regard:
“We afﬁ rm that the BRICS and other emerging
countries have played an important role in
contributing to world peace, security and
stability, boosting global economic growth,
enhancing multilateralism and promoting
greater democracy in international relations.”
“We share the view that the world is undergoing
far-reaching, complex and profound changes,
marked by the strengthening of multipolarity,
economic globalisation and increasing
interdependence. While facing the evolving
global environment and a multitude of global
threats and challenges, the international
community should join hands to strengthen
cooperation for common development.
Based on universally recognised norms of
international law and in a spirit of mutual
respect and collective decision-making,
global economic governance should be
strengthened, democracy in international
relations should be promoted, and the voice
of emerging and developing countries in
international affairs should be enhanced.”
“We express our strong commitment to
multilateral diplomacy with the United Nations
playing the central role in dealing with global
challenges and threats. In this respect, we
reafﬁ rm the need for a comprehensive reform
of the UN, including its Security Council,with
a view to making it more effective, ef ﬁ cient
and representative, so that it can deal with
today’s global challenges more successfully.
China and Russia reiterate the importance
they attach to the status of India, Brazil and
South Africa in international affairs, and
understand and support their aspiration to
play a greater role in the UN.”
South-South cooperation
According to the Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Ms Maite
Nkoana-Mashabane, the country’s South-
South cooperation focus is as follows:
“We want to demystify the notion that we
are being fashionable in pursuing relations
with our partners of the South, by reminding
South Africans that the seeds of South-South
cooperation were laid at the 1955 Bandung
Conference, when African and Asian nations
cemented political and cultural ties. But of
course, as the South African Government,
we are also aware that history has marched
on. The age of globalisation requires that we
elevate these partnerships to a different level,
building on the wells of goodwill and solidarity,
and generate mutually bene ﬁ cial economic
relations. We share similar perspectives about
the reform of global governance, in particular
the imperative for enhanced representation
and a voice for developing countries in
decision-making processes. Signiﬁ cantly, we
share a common view that multilateralism and
a rules-based global governance mechanism
is the best guarantor of stability, and provides
a better framework for asserting our values
and interests. However, while deepening our
relations with countries on our continent and
emerging powers, South Africa will continue
to strengthen the partnerships that we have
with countries of the North.”
The Minister has also previously explained
that in terms of classical game theory, the
new world order should not be viewed in
the preceding order’s narrow view of zero-
sum terms where one party has to lose out
when another party wins, but rather that the
new order will seek to maximise win-win
scenarios based on our common recognition
of our shared global challenges. South Africa
pertinently took on the climate change agenda
last year and Minister Nkoana-Mashabane in
her capacity as President of COP17/CMP7 (the
United Nations Climate Change Conference
2011) sought to bridge the traditional political
divides in this context in the shared interest of
humanity to preserve its natural environment
also for future generations.
G20
At the G20 Foreign Ministers’ meeting held
earlier this year, Minister Nkoana-Mashabane
focussed on several core issues, including:
providing leadership for effectively and •
coherently addressing cross-cutting
global challenges (social, economic and
environmental dimensions)
the need for the multilateral system to •
deliver and to deliver more effectively and
in a coordinated manner.
It was highlighted that a multilateral system
was needed that delivers effective global
public goods in key areas such as:
climate change and the sustainable •
management of the environment
trade•
development and the ﬁ ght against hunger •
and poverty
international peace and security•
weapons of mass destruction•
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other •
communicable diseases
human rights •
global economic justice and fairness.•
The Minister pertinently recognised the
catalytic role that the G20 and other like-
minded countries could play, through
unprecedented levels of coordinated action, to
show leadership in working together, based on
the values and principles that underpinned the
UN Charter, to address in a pragmatic manner
the world’s many needs and challenges.
In the context of South Africa being a
multicultural and multiracial society, this is
again derived from and linked to the core
values of our foreign policy, notably that of the
philosophical concept of Ubuntu to deﬁ ne who
we are and how we relate to others. Ubuntu is
the very essence of our being.
We therefore place a premium on a
people-centered foreign policy that strongly
values cooperation over competition and
collaboration over confrontation. South African
foreign policy is informed and guided by Ubuntu
and a commitment to the establishment of
mutually beneﬁ cial international partnerships
that also contribute to the achievement of
the national development priorities of our
continental and international partners. Our
“We therefore
place a premium
on a people-
centered foreign
policy  that
strongly values
cooperation over
competition and
collaboration over
confrontation.”
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA, BRICS AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
President Jacob Zuma at the  BRICS Summit  President Jacob Zuma at the  BRICS Summit
In 2011, South Africa’s exports to China •
reached an all-time high, valued at
R85 billion, displaying a 45% increase in
exports from 2010.
South Africa’s agricultural, forestry and •
ﬁ shery exports to China increased by
42% between 2010 and 2011. China is
now South Africa’s fourth-largest export
market after ranking seventh during
2010.
In 2011, bilateral trade between South •
Africa and India stood at R53,7 billion.
South Africa was exporting goods to
the value of R24,4 billion to India and
importing goods from India to the value of
R29,3 billion. Trade between South Africa
and India is set to reach US$15 billion
(R116 billion) per year by 2014.
India ranks among the top 10 investing •
countries in South Africa.
In 2011, Brazil ranked 26th as an export •
partner and 15th as an import partner
of South Africa globally. Total bilateral
trade between South Africa and Brazil
amounted to R17,5 billion in 2011, which
was 18,6% higher than in 2010.
There was substantial growth in total •
trade between South Africa and Russia
between 2010 and to 2011 from
R2,8 billion to R3,6 billion. South African
exports increased from R2,1 billion in
2010 to R2,2 billion in 2011. Russia
is South Africa’s 41st biggest export
destination.
Did you know?
... continued on page 38

38 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 39Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Diplomacy
struggle for a better life for all in South Africa
is closely intertwined with our struggle for a
better Africa and a better world for all.
Therefore, at the core of our foreign policy
engagements is a desire to continuously build
international relations and partnerships that
will contribute to the achievement of South
Africa’s national priorities. The strategic thrust
of our foreign policy includes our opposition
to the structural inequalities and abuses of
power in the global system. We are committed
to do our part to strengthen and transform the
multilateral system, to re ﬂ ect the diversity
of our nations and to assure its centrality in
global governance.
The governing structures of international
organisations should re ﬂ ect the changed
realities of the global economy in the 21st
century, through the increased voice and
representation of emerging markets and
developing economies. South Africa seeks
appropriate reform of the components of the
multilateral system in the areas of mandate,
representation, scope, governance,
responsibility, responsiveness and
development orientation, to ensure that the
global governance institutions that guide our
interactions are democratic, responsive and
accountable.
Since its ﬁ rst summit, the BRICS leaders’
declarations have pertinently addressed
the reform of global economic and ﬁ nancial
architecture and called for strict adherence
to the commitments that have already been
agreed to in the context of the G20, including
its important developmental agenda.
In this regard, for example, reform of
the international ﬁ nancial institutions should
be carried out in accordance with G20
commitments, with the objective of achieving
an equitable distribution of voting power
between developed and developing countries,
which is consistent with their participation in
the world economy.
South Africa is of the view that reforms of
global institutions should be ﬁ nalised in the
relevant multilateral fora. Much of the recent
progress that has been achieved on the reform
of the Bretton Woods Institutions (BWIs) has
been achieved through agreements reached
in the context of the G20, which has proven
that it can add value to and complement,
where appropriate, the reform processes
in other fora. Experience has certainly
shown, for example, that the G20 can play
an important facilitating role, as a “catalyst”,
especially where negotiations in other fora
are not making progress, as was the case in
the G20 in reaching agreement on aspects of
the reform of the BWIs.
Within the context of BWI reforms, South
Africa welcomes the agreement on the
World Bank’s voice reform to increasing the
voting power of developing and transition
countries by 3,13% to 4,7% and the creation
of an additional constituency for Sub-Sahara
Africa.
The November 2010 G20 Seoul Summit
adopted and con ﬁ rmed the comprehensive
package of IMF quota and governance reforms
that had been agreed to by ﬁ nance ministers
and central bank governors. In working
together to strengthen the international
ﬁ nancial architecture, at their June 2012 Los
Cabos Summit, G20 leaders welcomed the
ﬁ rm commitments to increase the resources
available to the IMF, with many leaders
announcing commitments in this regard during
the summit. South Africa committed to invest
US$2 billion of its reserve assets in additional
resources with the fund and BRICS leaders
jointly committed US$75  billion in total.
In November 2012, the G20 ﬁ nance
ministers and central governors reviewed
progress made on the implementation of the
Quota and Governance Reform Package
agreed in 2010 at the Seoul Summit by the
agreed date of the 2012 IMF/World Bank
annual meetings.
The meetings of BRICS ﬁ nance ministers
on the sidelines of the G20 have also become
a standing arrangement.
South Africa supports quota reform in the
IMF that will not see emerging and developing
countries lose any quota share after
redistribution. It is important to ensure that
the next quota review should therefore ensure
adequate protection for developing countries,
particularly systemically regional economies,
“The issue of
multipolarity is
directly linked to
the emergence
of a new world
order and the
ascendancy
of new powers
from the
developing
world.”
welcomes the progress, albeit very slow, that
has been made to date.
However, more than ever, the world
is in need of comprehensive reform of the
UNSC, which involves an expanded council
in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories, and with improved working
methods. In addition, in keeping with the
principle of equitable representation, Africa,
which makes up a considerable percentage
of the overall membership of the UN, must be
represented in the permanent category of the
UNSC. A reformed council will enhance its
legitimacy, representativity and effectiveness
in global governance.
South Africa will continue to campaign
for the reform of not only the UNSC but also
other global governance institutions.
Our permanent representative to the UN,
Ambassador Baso Sangqu, stated:
“The BRICS leaders’ views expressed
through both the Sanya and the Delhi
declarations, complements the South
African views mentioned above that the
world is undergoing far-reaching, complex
and profound changes, marked by the
strengthening of multipolarity, economic
globalisation and increasing interdependence.
This is based on universally recognised
norms of international law and in a spirit
of mutual respect and collective decision-
making, global economic governance should
be strengthened, democracy in international
relations should be promoted and the voice
of emerging and developing countries in
international affairs should be enhanced.”
The issue of multipolarity is directly linked
to the emergence of a new world order and
the ascendancy of new powers from the
developing world.
South Africa’s membership of BRICS is
focussed on the formation’s joint aspirations in
this regard as stated in the Delhi Declaration:
“We envision a future marked by global
peace, economic and social progress and
enlightened scientiﬁ c temper. We stand ready
to work with others, developed and developing
countries together, on the basis of universally
recognised norms of international law and
multilateral decision-making, to deal with the
challenges and the opportunities before the
world today. Strengthened representation
of emerging and developing countries in
the institutions of global governance will
enhance their effectiveness in achieving this
objective.”
Delhi Declaration – 29 March 2012, India.
such as South Africa, that contribute to growth
and ﬁ nancial development and stability in
their regions.
UN reform
South Africa served as a non-permanent
member of the United Nations Security
Council (UNSC) for the period 2011 to 2012.
The UNSC is one of the global governance
institutions that we believe, very strongly,
should be more representative – in both
composition and decision-making processes
– of the international community. South Africa
has been actively engaged in and supportive
of all aspects of the reform process and
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA, BRICS AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
The South African delegation, led by President Jacob Zuma, at the BRICS The South African delegation, led by President Jacob Zuma, at the BRICS
Summit in New Delhi in March 2012Summit in New Delhi in March 2012

Promoting Regional Integration
and Development
The SADC Keadquarters in Gabarone, Botswana
     www.dirco.gov.za

43Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
DIPLOMACYY
PROMPROMOTINOTING “DG “DEVELEVELOPMEOPMENTALNTAL INTINTEGRAR TIONTION” IN AFRICA
PROMOTING “DEVELOPMENTAL     INTEGRATION” IN AFRICA
In recent years, there have been vast
improvements in Africa’s economic
prospects. Africa is already the second-
fastest growing continent in the world
after Asia and offers the highest return on
investment of any region.
Growth in Africa has been driven largely
by the boom in the minerals, agriculture,
transport, telecommunications and retail
sectors. Africa’s enormous reserves of raw
materials, 60% of the world’s unused arable
agricultural land, a young growing population,
a growing middle class with considerable
purchasing power, and urbanisation
alongside steady improvements in economic
governance are all factors which could see
Africa becoming the next leading source of
global economic growth.
The South African Government’s
economic vision is broad and integrated.
African development remains the priority for
our foreign economic policy and has become
more compelling as prospects for growth and
development in Africa have vastly improved.
However, Africa’s full economic potential will
remain unful ﬁ lled unless we address the
challenges of inadequate infrastructure, the
limitations imposed by small and fragmented
markets and inadequate diversi ﬁ cation of
industrial output, all of which are responsible
for the low levels of intra-African trade. The
answer lies in promoting a developmental
regional integration agenda that develops
targeted programmes to address these
fundamental constraints.
South Africa is therefore championing
an ambitious integration and development
agenda in Africa in respect of our
engagements in the Southern African
Customs Union (SACU), the Southern
African Development Community (SADC)
and in the recently launched Tripartite
Initiative to integrate SADC, the East African
Community (EAC) and the Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA).
The recent improvements in Africa’s
development prospects provide the basis to
advance this work decisively.
Development integration
South Africa has advocated and actively
supported a “development integration”
approach to regional integration in southern
and eastern Africa. This approach argues
that the barriers to intra-regional trade in
developing countries (and Africa in particular)
are more to do with underdeveloped
production structures and inadequate
infrastructure, rather than tariffs or regulatory
barriers. Market integration through tariff
liberalisation therefore requires cooperation
and coordination programmes to address
constraints that obtain in the real economy.
Such programmes must create objective
conditions for trade integration to be viable
and sustainable.
This approach also argues that
success will likely depend on a high level
of political cooperation at an early stage
of the process. As such, it is necessary to
combine trade integration with programmes
of cross-border infrastructure development
and sector policy coordination, focussed
on regional industrial development and
building industrial complementarities across
regional value chains. Rather than focussing
on maximising ef ﬁ ciency, the emphasis of
developmental integration is on cooperating
with one another to stimulate the creation of
productive capacities.
Our efforts to advance a “developmental
integration” approach to regional and
continental integration in Africa, particularly
in southern and eastern Africa has met with
some success.
Southern African Customs
Union
SACU was established in 1910 and is the
oldest functioning customs union in the world.
As the most deeply integrated constituent
part of SADC, SACU can be an anchor for
wider integration within the southern African
region.
Working in partnership with Botswana,
Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland, we
have forged a common vision and work
programme to consolidate the customs
union, so that SACU remains a relevant
and effective instrument that bene ﬁ ts all the
parties. This work programme consists of
ﬁ ve pillars, namely:
promoting regional industrial •
development (speci ﬁ cally identifying
sectors and interventions to promote a
wider spread of industrial development
among SACU members)
reviewing the revenue-sharing formula•
improving trade facilitation•
developing common SACU institutions•
promoting uni ﬁ ed engagement in trade •
negotiations with third parties.
Southern African
Development Community
The SADC Free Trade Area (FTA), which
was launched in 2008, should be fully
implemented in 2012, with almost all tariff
lines traded duty-free. The product lines
traded at zero per cent currently stands at
92%, against the baseline of 85% in 2008.
Our next priority is to consolidate the
SADC FTA before considering deeper forms
of integration. South Africa will work with
fellow member states to implement their
obligations, while also promoting sectoral
cooperation and infrastructure development,
addressing non-tariff barriers and simplifying
rules of origin, harmonising standards, and
advancing the work on trade facilitation.
Much greater effort will be required in
the area of regional industrial policy that
designs interventions that promote industrial
complementarities across regional industrial
value-chains.
The Tripartite Initiative
The recently launched Tripartite Initiative
between SADC, the EAC and COMESA
provides another good example of our
“developmental integration” approach.
The Tripartite Initiative consists of three
pillars that will be pursued concurrently, to
ensure an equitable spread of the bene ﬁ ts
of regional integration, namely: market
integration, infrastructure development and
industrial development.
In 2011, members of the three groupings
launched negotiations towards the Tripartite
FTA (T-FTA). The FTA will, as a ﬁ rst phase,
cover only trade in goods and core areas
necessary to support that (such as Rules
of Origin). Services and other trade-related
areas will be covered in a second phase.
Once concluded, the T-FTA will combine the
markets of 26 countries with a population of
nearly 600 million people and a combined
gross domestic product of US$1 trillion,
providing the market scale that could launch
a sizeable part of the continent onto a
new developmental trajectory. The market
access negotiations have commenced and
“Our next priority is to
consolidate the SADC FTA
before considering deeper forms
of integration. South Africa will
work with fellow member states
to implement their obligations,
while also promoting sectoral
cooperation and infrastructure
development, addressing non-
tariff barriers and simplifying
rules of origin, harmonising
standards and advancing the
work on trade facilitation.”
the areas for cooperation to promote trade and
investment in infrastructure development, as
well as policy and institutional development
and technical capacity-building. These
programmes are tailored to the needs and
capacities of the partners.
In addition to intergovernmental
engagements, our bilateral work aims to
address supply-side constraints on the
continent through facilitation of investment
in infrastructure (e.g. roads, rail, ports,
energy and information and communications
technology) and integrated regional
manufacturing platforms across a broad
range of sectors. This entails concerted
efforts in mobilising outward investment by
the South African private sector and state-
owned entities into the continent to promote
mutually-beneﬁ cial regional and continental
integration.
it is anticipated that these negotiations
will be concluded by April 2014, with
implementation of the T-FTA scheduled for
2015.
The T-FTA will form the basis for an
Africa-wide FTA, which is expected to create
a market of US$2,6 trillion. This will address
the challenge of small and fragmented
economies in Africa. A larger, more integrated
and growing market would enhance the
interest of foreign investors in Africa and
provide a basis for enhanced intra-African
trade. This envisaged Continental FTA
(C-FTA) will therefore widen and build on the
integration initiatives already underway.
This work is underpinned by an intensive
and extensive set of bilateral engagements
with countries across the African continent.
This bilateral work is built around agreements
agreed jointly by governments, which specify
PROMPRP OTINOTINNG “DG “DEVELEVELOPMEOPMEOPMENTALNTALNTAL INT INT INTEGRAEGRAEGRATIONTIONTION” IN” ININ AFR AFR AFRICAICAICA
DIPDIPDIPDIPDIPPPPPPPPPPD PDIPIPPDIPPLLOLOLLOLOMLOMOMOMOMLOMOMMLOLOL ML MAACACYACYCYCYACYAAA
Left to right: SADC Executive Secretary, Dr Tomaz Augusto Salomao, Left to right: SADC Executive Secretary, Dr Tomaz Augusto Salomao,
     President Jacob Zuma and President Joseph Kabila (DRC)     President Jacob Zuma and President Joseph Kabila (DRC)
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
42 43
By Rob DaviesBy Rob Davies
Minister of Trade and IndustryMinister of Trade and Industry
42 43
UBUNBUNTU TUTU U
UBUNTU
 dipldiplllomacomacomacyy iny inin act ion
diplomacy in action
 Issue 2e 22222
Issue2
 IssuIssuIssus e 2 e 2 e 2 22
Issue2
 dipldipldipldi omacomacomacacacy iny iny  actactact actactacac ioniono
diplomacy in action
 UBUNUBUNUBUNUBUNU TUTUTUTUUUU
UBUNTU
DIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCOzaOzaOzazazaa
DIRCOza
www.www.www.ww dircdircdircircrcrcdirco.goo.goo.googo.goo.govv.zv.zav.zav.za
 @the@the@thhehehe@theheheeeeDIRCDIRCDDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIRCDIR OzaOOOOzaOzaOza
@theeDIRCDIRCOzaOza
 thedthedthededthedthth dircoircoircoircoircoircorr zzaza a a a
thedircoza

DIPLOMACYISRAEL-PALESTINE CONFLICT
O
ne of the important areas of
interest for South Africa as
a non-permanent member
of the United Nations
Security Council (UNSC),
apart from championing the African Agenda,
is the promotion of peace in the Middle East
and North Africa region, especially in the
wake of the recent Arab Uprisings.
There are many reasons why
developments in the Middle East and North
Africa are a priority for South Africa. In our
own historic struggle for liberation, we
identiﬁ ed with the struggles of the Palestinian
people for self-determination.
Our foreign policy decisions since 1994
have been guided by our principles, foremost
among which is the desire for a more just,
humane and equitable world. In the context
of the Israel-Palestine con ﬂ ict, South Africa
maintains that Palestinians have the right to
their own state, as Israelis already do.
South Africa explicitly supports the
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian con ﬂ ict
through a negotiated agreement between
the parties that would result in two states,
Israel and a Palestinian State which is viable
and contiguous, with East Jerusalem as its
capital.
These states must exist side-by-side
in peace and security, within internationally
recognised borders.
We believe, with the overwhelming
majority of the international community, that
the continued illegal settlement expansion by
Israel in the occupied Palestinian territories
undermines the possibility of a negotiated
settlement.
If fully implemented, the expansion
would make a contiguous Palestinian State
unviable, if not impossible. In addition, as
we have seen in the most recent past, the
settler communities perpetrate a great deal
of violence against ordinary Palestinians.
Coupled with the inhuman conditions
created by the continued blockade against
Gaza, these developments make the
possibility of a negotiated settlement and
eventual reconciliation between Israelis and
Palestinians very difﬁ cult.
South Africa is concerned by the
humanitarian situation in the Occupied
Palestinian Territories, especially the dire
By Ebrahim Ebrahim
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
ISRAEL-PALESTINE CONFLICTDIPLOMACY
United Nations Security Council meeting United Nations Security Council meeting
on the situation in the Middle East on the situation in the Middle East
in the public chamber and not behind closed
doors – a position strongly opposed by the
Security Council’s permanent members.
Because of our continued pressure, the
UNSC eventually agreed to a formula where
the brieﬁ ngs of its Secretariat will always be in
public, with a council debate on the Middle East
every three months open to all UN members.
We took this initiative further in January
this year when, as President of the UNSC,
we successfully held two public meetings,
one in which the UN Emergency Relief
Coordinator, Ms Valery Amos, briefed on
the humanitarian situation in the Occupied
Territories and the second a High-level
Open Debate on the situation in the Middle
East. The large number of UN member
states who participated in the debate
illustrates the importance the international
community attaches to ﬁ nding a resolution
to the crisis.
In the conduct of our international
relations, we attach the utmost importance to
A South African priority
situation in Gaza. Palestinians have to
contend with occupation by the Israeli
military; a separation barrier that divides not
only Israel from Palestine, but Palestinians
from one another; a set of bypass roads,
checkpoints and other demeaning measures,
such as destroyed olive trees, and a lack of
water which, according to UN reports, is
worse than in refugee camps elsewhere in
the world.
The situation is so bad that the UN has
recently warned that should this trend
continue, Gaza will be unliveable as early as
2020.
Part of the failed diplomatic approach
is that the UNSC has neither been able to
address these developments nor move a
negotiated settlement forward.
Since 2000, permanent members of the
UNSC have vetoed 17 resolutions addressing
the situation in the Middle East, 10 of which
were cast by the United States of America
(USA), of which nine related to the situation
between Israel and Palestine.
The most recent US veto was cast in
February 2011, when 138 member states
of the UN introduced a Security Council
resolution calling for an end to settlement
activities by Israel in the West Bank, including
East Jerusalem, as such activities are illegal
under international law.
It is with these stark realities in mind that
South Africa, as a non-permanent member
of the UNSC, (2011 – 2012) consistently
called for more assertive action by the
Security Council to bring about a permanent
settlement.
The question of Palestine was a top
priority for South Africa in its ﬁ rst term (2007
– 2008) on the UNSC, when we galvanised
the members of the Non-Aligned Movement
(NAM) to call for the monthly meetings of the
UNSC on the Middle East to be conducted
the promotion of human rights, democracy,
justice and international law.
We believe that it is our moral duty – and
it is in our national interest – to champion
human rights struggles around the world.
This is why emerging states need to ask
themselves whether it is not time for a new
approach to addressing peace and security
matters.
As emerging countries, we need to ask
ourselves whether we should not use our
solidarity to put pressure on the UNSC to become
more responsive to the needs of the majority.
Reforming the UNSC to become more
representative seems an impossible task at
times, but we are not going to give up.
Africa and Latin America are not at all
represented at the level of the Security
Council. The body must be more responsive,
representative and legitimate, which will go a
long way to restoring its ability to meeting its
obligations to the victims of con ﬂ ict around
the world.
United Nations Relief Works Agency United Nations Relief Works Agency
building damaged in Gaza City in November 2012building damaged in Gaza City in November 2012
ISRAEL-PALESTINE    CONFLICT
44 45UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza

46 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 47Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
T
he ﬁ fth Forum for China-
Africa Cooperation (FOCAC)
Ministerial Conference was
held in Beijing, China, from
19 to 20 July 2012. The
conference adopted the Beijing Declaration
and the Beijing Action Plan (2013 – 2015),
and was held under the theme, “Build on
Past Achievements and Open Up New
Prospects for the New Type of China-Africa
Strategic Partnership”.
The outcomes documents highlight
the commitment of both sides towards
strengthening the partnership and will form
the basis of engagement going forward.
The Declaration is a political document,
while the Plan of Action is more practical
and concrete. The language in the two
documents is encouraging and shows
signiﬁ cant movement from the Chinese side
to accommodate African concerns.
Signiﬁ cantly, South Africa assumed the
Co-Chairship of FOCAC at the conclusion of
the conference. South Africa takes over from
Egypt, on behalf of the African side, for the
next six years and will host the sixth FOCAC
Ministerial Meeting in South Africa in 2015.
During its tenure as Co-Chair, South Africa
will continue to ensure that the principles of
South-South cooperation are realised and
that special attention is given to assisting in
the implementation of the African Agenda.
In her address to the media at the
conclusion of the conference, the Minister
of International Relations and Cooperation,
Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, stated that
“South Africa, as Co-Chair, will concentrate
its efforts on ensuring a greater role
for an involvement of the African Union
Commission (AUC) in the FOCAC process,
as well as on maintaining close relations with
the regional economic communities and the
AU’s ﬂ agship programme for socio-economic
development, the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development. In particular, we will
work closely with China for the realisation
of priority cross-border infrastructure
projects entailed within the Programme for
Infrastructure Development in Africa and
the Presidential Infrastructure Championing
Initiative (PICI). We will continue to advocate
for Africa’s developmental agenda and
ensure that the values of FOCAC, as well
as those of Pan-Africanism, are realised
through this partnership.”
Minister Nkoana-Mashabane went on to
inform the media that “we welcome the
special programme on trade with Africa, and
the proposal to send investment and trade-
promotion missions to Africa, expanding
and diversifying imports from Africa. This
includes the technical support for intensive
processing of African agro-produce and
industrial raw materials, and increasing
value addition of Africa’s primary products
by means of investment.
“Africa and China have to look at opportunities
in strengthening industrialisation processes
to bene ﬁ t both parties. In addition,
beneﬁ ciation of Africa’s mineral resources
will form a strong base  for localisation and
further industrialisation in Africa. We look
forward to cooperation in information and
communications technology, especially the
building of communications infrastructure
in Africa. We also look forward to enhanced
cooperation in science, technology and
innovation, especially raising African countries’
capacity in research and development
innovation. Exchanges and cooperation
in this ﬁ eld must contribute to growth and
sustainable development in Africa.”
Clearly then, FOCAC will be used as a
framework to strengthen consultation,
expand cooperation and promote political
dialogue and economic cooperation for
mutual and equal bene ﬁ t between China
and Africa. South Africa believes that the ﬁ fth
FOCAC Ministerial Conference Declaration
and the Beijing Action Plan (2013 – 2015)
provides the space to achieve this. South
Africa was also greatly encouraged by the
ﬁ ve new measures announced by President
Hu Jintao, namely that China will:
expand cooperation in investment •
and ﬁ nancing to support sustainable
development, including the
announcement that China will provide
a $20-billion line of credit to African
countries, along with the $5 billion
provided through the China-Africa
Development Fund
increase assistance to Africa to bring the •
beneﬁ ts of development to the African
continent
support the African integration process •
and help enhance capacity for overall
development, including support for
regional infrastructure development,
speciﬁ cally through project preparation,
ﬁ nancing and development support
enhance people-to-people friendship to •
lay a solid foundation of public support
for enhancing common development
promote peace and stability in Africa, •
and create a secure environment for
Africa’s development.
The Minister’s reaction was that “these
measures are a clear indication of China’s
willingness to deepen its cooperation with
Africa holistically. South Africa will work
closely with China in ensuring that these
measures are realised for the beneﬁ t of both
sides.”
In this regard, it will be necessary to meet
with the Chinese side to establish a clear
common picture of the way forward, as well
as the modus operandi between the two co-
chairs. It will be suggested to the Chinese that
it may be necessary to do a comprehensive
audit and evaluation of FOCAC 12 years on,
as well as to develop a common six-year
roadmap. This will be designed to assess
the impact of FOCAC on the lives of ordinary
people, to maximise cooperation, learn from
The Union Buildings  in  PretoriaThe Union Buildings  in  Pretoria
experiences, share best practices and build
on past achievements. Following the audit
and evaluation process, it may be necessary
to develop a new Common African (Political,
Economic and Social) Strategy vis-a-vis
engagement with China, including the
FOCAC process and this is being informed
by the outcomes of the review of FOCAC
above.
Looking forward, the foreign ministers
of Africa and China are scheduled to meet
at the third Political Consultation to be
held in New York in September 2013 on
the margins of the United Nations General
Assembly. A Communiqué/Declaration is
normally adopted at the conclusion of the
meeting. The 10th FOCAC Senior Of ﬁ cials
Meeting (SOM) is scheduled to be held in
South Africa in the second half of 2014. The
SOM does a mid-term review and prepares
for the Ministerial Conference the next year.
The sixth FOCAC Ministerial Conference is
scheduled to be held in South Africa in the
last quarter of 2015. It will be preceded by
the 11th SOM.
A new Declaration and a new Plan of
Action (2016 – 2018) will be the outcomes
of the meeting. The process repeats itself
for the next three years, but with meetings
taking place in China, culminating in the
seventh FOCAC Ministerial Conference in
China in 2018. At this time, the new Plan of
Action (2019 – 2021) will be adopted and
South Africa will hand over to a new Co-
Chair to be identiﬁ ed from the African side.
Lastly, within the framework of FOCAC,
there are also 10 subforums that will be
meeting regularly, namely the:
China-Africa Business Conference •
China-Africa People’s Forum •
China-Africa Forum on Agriculture •
Forum on China-Africa Science and •
Technological Cooperation
China-Africa Finance Cooperation •
Forum
FOCAC Cultural Ministers’ Forum •
Forum for Chinese and African Think-•
Tanks
FOCAC Legal Forum •
China-Africa Young Leaders Forum•
FOCAC Women’s Forum.•
Taking Africa forwardThe Forum for China-Africa CooperationFOCAC
DIPLOMACY FOCAC: THE FORUM FOR CHINA-AFRICA COOPERATION DIPLOMACYFOCAC: THE FORUM FOR CHINA-AFRICA COOPERATION
By Dave Malcomson
Director: NEPAD, APRM & ARF
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation

48 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza 49Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
T
he world economy is
undergoing a profound
structural shift in economic
power, with the emergence of
Brazil, Russia, India and China
(BRIC) as the new sources of global economic
growth, trade and investment ﬂ ows, which
are redeﬁ ning global economic geography. In
broad terms, we are seeing a shift in the locus
of economic power from the North and the
West to the South and the East. Economies of
the South have become key players and the
main drivers of recovery from the 2008 to 2010
“Great Recession”. In purchasing power parity
terms, by 2012, China is the world’s second-
largest economy, India is in third place and
Brazil is ranked sixth.
While South Africa’s economic links with
traditional trading partners remain important,
the country’s prospects for growth and
development will depend increasingly on
diversifying and strengthening its economic
links with these dynamic economies of the
South and with Africa. The expansion of
South Africa’s trade and direct investment
with the countries of the South, notably the
BRIC countries, continues apace, with China
and India at the forefront. The share of the
European Union in South Africa’s total trade
declined to 26,5% in 2011, while the share
of the BRICS in South Africa’s total trade
increased to 18,6% in 2011.
South Africa’s membership of the BRICS
has become a vital element of our global
economic strategy. BRICS offers an historic
opportunity to champion a new paradigm for
collaboration for equitable development by
emphasising complementarity and building
on our respective economic strengths.
Since developing countries are all seeking
to address their developmental challenges
and promote economic development, growth
and employment creation, utmost care is
required to ensure that the expansion of trade
and investment relations among developing
countries supports and does not undermine
these efforts. This requires an approach that
fosters economic complementarities, supports
the development of South Africa’s industrial,
agricultural and service sectors, and avoids
destructive and direct competition.
Building economic linkages
In this context, South Africa has placed greater
emphasis on building economic linkages
to underpin our industrial development
and employment objectives. Government
has emphasised the need to strengthen
cooperation to promote and develop small,
medium and micro-enterprises and address
non-tariff barriers alongside targeted
investment and export development and
promotion activities.
BRICS
 A VITAL ELEMENT OF SA’S GLOBAL ECONOMIC STRATEGY
Our economic engagement in BRICS is being
built on three pillars, which we should leverage
innovatively. First, the BRICS countries have
a shared interest in pursuing the reform of
multilateral institutions for global governance
to give greater voice to developing countries
in these institutions and, thereby, enhance the
legitimacy of the institutions themselves. In
particular, we have strengthened coordination
in the World Trade Organisation’s Doha Round
to defend and champion a development
outcome as well as in forums where trade and
investment issues arise.
The second pillar involves building intra-
BRICS cooperation. On matters relating
to trade and investment, government has
highlighted the importance of working to build
the country’s industrial base, enhance value-
added exports and promote technology-
sharing, small business development and
trade and investment promotion. To that end,
the Contact Group on Economic and Trade
Issues has proposed the establishment of
various working groups to promote greater
intra-BRICS cooperation.
It should also be recalled that all BRICS
countries have established technological
capabilities or are investing signi ﬁ cantly in
innovation. This offers scope for collaboration
in research and development as well as
for mutually bene ﬁ cial technology transfer
arrangements.
Development bank
BRICS member states are in the process
of studying the feasibility of setting up
a new development bank for mobilising
resources for infrastructure and sustainable
development projects in BRICS and other
emerging economies and developing
countries. Finance ministers are tasked with
examining the feasibility and viability of such
an initiative. They have set up a joint working
group for further study and will report back to
the heads of state by the ﬁ fth summit in South
Africa in March 2013.
There is also an innovative proposal
for the settlement of trade in domestic
currencies. This will reduce transaction
costs and support growth in intra-BRICS
trade. The BRICS Business Forum has set a
target of US$500 billion in intra-BRICS trade
by 2015.
The BRICS countries have also proposed
establishing a BRICS Trade and Development
Risk Pool, which aims to redress the historical
dominance of European and American
reinsurance companies in BRICS markets.
Africa’s economic development
agenda
South Africa has a direct interest in extending
BRICS cooperation to support Africa’s
DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOz
economic development agenda. The
BRICS countries can contribute to Africa’s
development and integration process
through the development of infrastructure
and industrial capacity, and increase imports
of value-added manufactured products from
the continent. It is also important to leverage
infrastructure investment to stimulate and
support industrial development in Africa. The
abundant natural resources of Africa, the
growing consumer power of Africa’s emerging
middle class and high growth rates offer an
opportunity to build a more sustainable and
mutually beneﬁ cial relationship with Africa in
the next decades.
Current outward foreign direct investment
ﬂ ows from China, as well as other large
emerging market countries, to manufacturing
industries in developing countries can be
leveraged to drive industrialisation in the
poorest countries, where ﬁ nancial capital and
entrepreneurial skills have in the past proved
to be constrained. If other BRIC partners
such as Brazil and India follow China’s growth
trajectory, they will create even more labour-
intensive jobs in low-income countries.
Rapidly growing investment in African
infrastructure from emerging economies,
among other things, also portends well for
Africa’s future development and integration
prospects.
By Rob DaviesBy Rob Davies
Minister of Trade and IndustryMinister of Trade and Industry
DIPLOMACY BRICS: A VITAL ELEMENT OF SA’S GLOBAL ECONOMIC STRATEGY DIPLOMACYBRICS: A VITAL ELEMENT OF SA’S GLOBAL ECONOMIC STRATEGY
The Nelson Mandela Bridge in Johannesburg spans 248 m The Nelson Mandela Bridge in Johannesburg spans 248 m
and is the biggest cable-stayed bridge in southern Africa and is the biggest cable-stayed bridge in southern Africa
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza

South Africa:
host of the
African
Commission
on Nuclear
Energy
(AFCONE)
By Ambassador AS Minty
Chairperson: AFCONE
A small metal
ploughshare, crafted
from non-radioactive
material taken from
one of South Africa’s
dismantled nuclear
devices
Peaceful
applications of
nuclear science
include the
eradication of
rinderpest in Africa
and the treatment
of cancer. The
bacteria are
spread on a glass
miroscope slide
for Gram staining
as part of the
identiﬁ cation.
(Entomology
Unit, Seibersdorf,
Austria, 2 June
2006)
50 51UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2 Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTUDIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA: HOST OF THE AFRICAN COMMISSION ON NUCLEAR ENERGY (AFCONE)
SOUTH AFRICA: HOST OF THE AFRICAN COMMISSION ON NUCLEAR ENERGY (AFCONE)
DIPLOMACY

A
FCONE holds signi ﬁ cant advantages for peaceful
regional nuclear cooperation that would contribute to
Africa’s socio-economic development.
The establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
(NWFZs) contributes to the international community’s
efforts towards the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. NWFZs
play an important role in preventing the proliferation – both vertical
and horizontal – of nuclear weapons. Such zones also enhance
global and regional peace and security, strengthen the nuclear non-
proliferation regime and contribute towards realising the objectives
of nuclear disarmament. This was also recognised by the various
outcome documents of the review conferences of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
Although the NPT is considered as the cornerstone of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime, an NWFZ ensures the total absence of
nuclear weapons anywhere within the agreed zone. In this respect, it
differs from the provisions of the NPT and expresses the explicit wish
of countries within a speci ﬁ c zone or region not to be exposed to the
dangers that nuclear weapons hold. This common wish or purpose
arises when states within a region share the mutual conviction that
their strategic interests would be enhanced – not compromised – by
their participation in the NWFZ. The practical implication of NWFZs is
to constrain and constrict the area in which the nuclear-weapon states
can station their nuclear weapons.
The ﬁ rst NWFZ was established in South America through the
Treaty of Tlatelolco. Other zones were established in the South Paciﬁ c
(Treaty of Rarotonga), South-east Asia (Treaty of Bangkok) and
Antarctica (Antarctic Treaty). The entire southern hemisphere is now
a zone free of nuclear weapons. In addition, an NWFZ has also been
established in Central Asia (which is in the northern hemisphere and
covers the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic
of Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and the Republic of Uzbekistan). Lately,
Mongolia has declared itself as an NWFZ.
Within Africa, the momentum towards an African NWFZ was initiated
through the Declaration on the Denuclearisation of Africa, adopted
by the First Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government of the then Organisation of African Unity, held from 17
to 21 July 1964, in Cairo, Egypt. However, Africa’s vision of a treaty
prohibiting nuclear weapons only came to fruition after 32 years, with
the signing of the Pelindaba Treaty in Cairo on 11 April 1996. The main
factor inhibiting the conclusion of this treaty was the nuclear weapons
programme of apartheid South Africa.
The negotiators agreed to refer to the Treaty on the NMFZ in
Africa as the Pelindaba Treaty. This title is derived from the Zulu
words “iphelile indaba”, which means that the matter is settled or the
discussion is closed. It also refers to the location of the South African
Nuclear Energy Corporation at Pelindaba.
Nuclear disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy are ﬁ rmly entrenched in the Pelindaba Treaty.
The treaty places an obligation on its states parties not to conduct
research on, develop, manufacture, stockpile or otherwise acquire,
possess, or have control over any nuclear explosive device by any
means anywhere; prohibits the stationing of any nuclear device; and
requires the destruction of facilities for the manufacture of nuclear
explosive devices. The treaty also prohibits the dumping of radioactive
waste.
Like other NWFZs, Pelindaba has its text supplemented by three
protocols, namely the Protocol on Negative Security Assurances
(NSAs), a protocol that prohibits nuclear tests in the application zone
and a protocol that involves states which de jure or de facto have
territories under their jurisdiction in the treaty application area.
Importantly, the treaty allows, and encourages, the states parties
to engage in peaceful nuclear activities. It further obligates them to
conclude full-scope safeguard agreements with the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to verify the peaceful character of such
activities.
The Pelindaba Treaty has to date been rati ﬁ ed by 36 African states,
and four of the nuclear-weapon states have ratiﬁ ed the protocols to the
treaty they have signed.
To ensure compliance, the treaty has a mechanism for compliance
through the African Commission on Nuclear Energy, referred to as
AFCONE.
The main functions of AFCONE include:
collating reports and the exchange of information as provided•
arranging consultations•
reviewing the application to peaceful nuclear activities of •
safeguards by the IAEA
bringing into effect the complaints procedure•
encouraging regional and subregional programmes for cooperation •
in the peaceful uses of nuclear science and technology (S&T)
promoting international cooperation with extra-zonal states for the •
peaceful uses of nuclear S&T.
AFCONE is composed of 12 members elected by parties to the
treaty for a three-year period, bearing in mind the need for rotation,
as well as to include members from countries with advanced nuclear
programmes.
The commission has a bureau consisting of a Chairperson, a
Vice-Chairperson and an Executive Secretary. The commission elects
its Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, while the Chairperson of the
African Union (AU), at the request of parties to the Treaty and in
consultation with the AFCONE Chairperson, designates the Executive
Secretary of the commission.
At the First Conference of States Parties of the Pelindaba
Treaty, held on 4 November 2010, South Africa was endorsed as
the host country for the headquarters of AFCONE. The following 12
commissioners were elected: Mr Messaoud Baaliouamer, Algeria;
Dr  Baidori Outtara, Burkina Faso; Dr Augustin Simo, Cameroon;
Mr Atnatiwos Zeleke Meshesha, Ethiopia; Prof. Shaukat Abdurazak,
Kenya; Dr Bulgasem Hammouda Ali El-Fawaris, Libya; Mr Tezana
Coulibaly, Mali; Mr Anund P Neewoor, Mauritius; Dr Christian Sina
Diatta, Senegal; Mr Abdul Samad Minty, South Africa; Lieutenant-
Colonel Manzi Pidalatan, Togo; and Dr Mourad Telmini, Tunisia.
In addition, at the ﬁ rst meeting of AFCONE, held on 4 May 2011,
Ambassador Minty was elected as the Chairperson of AFCONE and
Prof. Mourad Telmini (Tunisia) as the Vice-Chairperson.
The immediate priority of AFCONE is the establishment of its
headquarters and the adoption of its budget and other procedural
documents to enable the commissioners to fulﬁ l their mandate.
The work of AFCONE is underpinned by important nuclear-
related initiatives already ongoing on the continent. These include
the important work being done by the African Regional Cooperative
Agreement to enlarge the contribution of nuclear S&T on the African
continent, in cooperation with the IAEA. Furthermore, the Forum of
Nuclear Regulatory Bodies in Africa (FNRBA) enhances, strengthens
and harmonises radiation protection, as well as the nuclear safety and
security regulatory infrastructure and framework. The FNRBA is also
an effective forum for the exchange of regulatory experiences and
practices among the nuclear regulatory bodies in Africa.
AFCONE therefore holds signi ﬁ cant advantages for peaceful
regional nuclear cooperation that would contribute to Africa’s socio-
economic development. These advantages not only relate to the
application of nuclear energy as an alternative energy source, but also
the other peaceful applications of nuclear science to the advantage of
human health and agriculture, such as the eradication of rinderpest in
Africa and the treatment of cancer.
Front row – left to right: Dr Augustin Simo (Cameroon), Prof. Shaukat Abdurazak (Kenya), Amb Anund P Neewoor (Mauritius),  Front row – left to right: Dr Augustin Simo (Cameroon), Prof. Shaukat Abdurazak (Kenya), Amb Anund P Neewoor (Mauritius),
Amb Abdul Samad Minty (South Africa), Mr Messaoud Baaliouamer (Algeria), Dr Mourad Telmini (Tunisia)Amb Abdul Samad Minty (South Africa), Mr Messaoud Baaliouamer (Algeria), Dr Mourad Telmini (Tunisia)

Back row – left to right: Mr Atnatiwos Meshesha (Ethiopia), Lieutenant-Colonel Manzi Pidalatan (Togo), Dr Badiori Outtara Back row – left to right: Mr Atnatiwos Meshesha (Ethiopia), Lieutenant-Colonel Manzi Pidalatan (Togo), Dr Badiori Outtara
(Burkina Faso), Mr Tezana Coulibaly (Mali), Dr Bulgasem El-Fawaris (Libya) (Burkina Faso), Mr Tezana Coulibaly (Mali), Dr Bulgasem El-Fawaris (Libya)
IAEA safeguard inspectors check the barrels which are ready to be shipped abroad. Only IAEA safeguard inspectors check the barrels which are ready to be shipped abroad. Only
countries that have an Additional Protocol are required to declare their yellowcake stockpiles to countries that have an Additional Protocol are required to declare their yellowcake stockpiles to
the IAEA. As of  March 2010, only 95 countires had Additional Protocols in forcethe IAEA. As of  March 2010, only 95 countires had Additional Protocols in force
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA: HOST OF THE AFRICAN COMMISSION ON NUCLEAR ENERGY (AFCONE)
SOUTH AFRICA: HOST OF THE AFRICAN COMMISSION ON NUCLEAR ENERGY (AFCONE)
DIPLOMACY
52 53UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2 Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTUDIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza thedircoza
Diplomacy
Diplomacy
© AUC – 2012, all rights reserved

54 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 55Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
T
ourist arrivals to South Africa
increased by an impressive
10,5% during the ﬁ rst six
months of 2012, which is
double the global tourism
growth rate of 5%. Given that tourism has
been identiﬁ ed as one of the six job drivers
in the New Growth Path, this development is
very encouraging. The other ﬁ ve job drivers
are infrastructure development, agriculture,
mining and beneﬁ ciation, manufacturing and
the green economy.
This year, we decided to single out
infrastructure for special focus, although the
other job drivers remain key to economic
growth and development. Infrastructure
development is a catalyst to sustainable
economic development and to the
improvement of the quality of life of our
people in a most fundamental way.
As the lead investor for the National
Infrastructure Plan, government has already
begun to roll out several projects. We have
paid special attention to the lessons we
have learnt from building infrastructure in the
past. We all have proud recollections of how
we managed to build stadiums, roads and
refurbished airports ahead of the 2010 FIFA
Soccer World Cup™.
A necessary investment
We must use that project management
experience to change our country’s landscape
and improve living conditions while growing
the economy. We have developed an
integrated, aligned and coordinated 20-year
infrastructure pipeline.
This is a necessary investment. The
failure to invest in basic services in black
communities over the decades of colonial
oppression and apartheid is a critical element
in the persistence of inequality today. To
reverse the legacy of the past, we have
already started building houses, schools,
hospitals, clinics, nursing colleges, dams,
power stations and other infrastructure.
The Eastern Cape Schools
Refurbishment Programme was launched
recently to replace 49 mud schools with
modern schools. There are currently more
than 2 000 registered school refurbishment
projects across the country. In addition, 886
health facilities are being refurbished and
revitalised.
We are also going to build two new
universities in Mpumalanga and the Northern
Cape as part of the social infrastructure build
programme, which will expand access to
higher education in the two provinces.
On economic infrastructure, we are
creating enabling infrastructure such as rail,
ports, energy, broadband and roads. No one
can imagine a successful producer who lacks
access to transport, telecommunications,
water or electricity.
There is a further bene ﬁ t for economic
development. Public investment requires
huge amounts of inputs such as equipment,
building materials, generators, cranes, trains
and even tar for the roads.
If all of these materials are bought locally,
their production will give a real boost to the
economy. That is particularly important given
the uncertain global outlook. Therefore, as a
job creator, the infrastructure programme is a
clear winner. Construction and maintenance
alone will employ tens of thousands of
people.
Central coordination
The strength of the National Infrastructure
Plan is the central coordination in The
Presidency, through the Presidential
Infrastructure Coordination Commission.
Another strength is the fact that it brings
together the three spheres of government.
To boost our work, we are developing an
Infrastructure Development Act. Secondly, we
are reallocating and aligning scarce funds to
the build programme and seeking innovative
funding mechanisms to address the full
package of projects. We are also prioritising
skills development, professional training and
job creation, hence the partnership we are
building with higher education institutions.
The infrastructure on the scale needed
to transform South Africa’s economy and
social landscape will not come cheap. The
cost of the strategic infrastructure projects
is estimated at about R4 trillion over the
next 15 years. Some of this cost includes
projects that the private sector will need to
pay for, such as industrial projects connected
to infrastructure. The State itself will invest
about R844 billion in the coming three years
Government recently adopted the
National Infrastructure Plan that is
intended to transform the economic
landscape of South Africa, create
signiﬁ cant numbers of new jobs,
strengthen the delivery of basic services
to the people of South Africa and support
the integration of African economies.
From a spatial analysis of the
country’s needs, 17 Strategic Integrated
Projects (SIPs) have been identi ﬁ ed.
The SIPs cover a range of economic and
social infrastructure. All nine provinces
are covered, with the emphasis on
poorer provinces.
The 17 projects are:
SIP 1: Unlocking the Northern •
Mineral Belt with Waterberg as the
catalyst
SIP 2: Durban-Free State-Gauteng •
Logistics and Industrial Corridor
SIP 3: South-eastern node and •
corridor development
SIP 4: Unlocking the economic •
opportunities in the North West
SIP 5: Saldanha-Northern Cape •
Development Corridor
SIP 6: Integrated Municipal •
Infrastructure Project
SIP 7: Integrated Urban Space and •
Public Transport Programme
SIP 8: Green energy in support of •
the South African economy
SIP 9: Electricity generation •
to support socio-economic
development
SIP 10: Electricity transmission and •
distribution for all
SIP 11: Agrilogistics and rural •
infrastructure
SIP 12: Revitalisation of public •
hospitals and other health facilities
SIP 13: National School Build •
Programme
SIP 14: Higher Education •
infrastructure
SIP 15: Expanding access to •
communications technology
SIP 16: Square Kilometre Array and •
Meerkat
SIP 17: Regional integration •
for African cooperation and
development.
The aim of SIP 17 is to participate
in mutually-bene ﬁ cial infrastructure
projects to unlock long-term socio-
economic bene ﬁ ts by partnering with
fast-growing African economies with
projected growth ranging between 3%
and 10%.
The projects involving transport, water
and energy also provide competitively
priced, diversiﬁ ed and short, medium to
long-term options for the South African
economy where for example, electricity
transmission in Mozambique (Cesul)
could assist in providing cheap, clean
hydro power in the short term while
Grand Inga in the Democratic Republic
of Congo is long term.
All these projects complement the
Free Trade Area to create a market of
600 million people in South, Central and
East Africa.
Government will contribute
R844  billion of the R1,3 trillion needed
for the infrastructure projects over the
next three years.
DID YOU KNOW?
“We all have
a role to play
in building
our country.
The National
Infrastructure
Plan is a key
contribution
to the socio-
economic
development of
our country.”
PRESIDENT JACOB ZUMA ON SOUTH AFRICA’S
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN
President Jacob Zuma and Deputy President President Jacob Zuma and Deputy President
Kgalema Motlanthe at the Presidential Infrastructure Kgalema Motlanthe at the Presidential Infrastructure
Conference, held on 19 October 2012 in SandtonConference, held on 19 October 2012 in Sandton
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA’S NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA’S NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN
alone. Current and future generations will be
able to bene ﬁ t from these investments that
we are making now.
Nothing can be more inspiring than
collectively working together to build our
country. We have to promote our country
and boost con ﬁ dence in the economy so
that it can grow and create jobs. We have to
give our people hope as indeed a lot is being
done to create a better life, even though
things may not be moving as fast as we all
want them to, given the frustrations and the
legacy of the past.
We all have a role to play in building our
country. The National Infrastructure Plan is
a key contribution to the socio-economic
development of our country.
Diplomacy
Diplomacy

56 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 57Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
S
een from government’s
commitment to its people,
Gautrain is not only about
a train. It is about people
who are proud of what their
nation can do! People who yearn for freedom
of movement! People who hunger for
upward mobility! People who are part of the
development in and around them! It is about
people on the move!
“Gautrain is life changing” was a comment
given by one of the ﬁ rst passengers when
opening the route between Johannesburg
and Pretoria on 2 August 2011. This is exactly
what the Gauteng Provincial Government’s
vision is through Gautrain; for the sustainable
socio-economic, political, cultural, sporting
and environmental development of the
province – a lifestyle change. An important
part of that vision is the freedom of movement
for citizens through an integrated, world-class
public transport system. Gautrain represents
a critical step in the realisation of that vision.
The Gautrain Management Agency is
committed to good corporate governance
and prudent ﬁ nancial management that is so
essential for the achievement of Gautrain’s
strategic objectives. One of the strategic
objectives of Gautrain is, among other things,
the improvement of accessibility and mobility
in the Johannesburg-Pretoria corridor. By
providing a safe, convenient, predictable
and affordable public transport system in this
corridor, Gautrain is changing the perception
of public transport in South Africa. This
will hopefully persuade car users to swap
congested roads for the speed and comfort
of Gautrain.
Another strategic objective met by
Gautrain is the contribution to accelerated
economic growth with an emphasis on
job creation, local skills development and
investment in black economic empowerment.
With Gautrain’s partnership with the private
sector, it has delivered on these objectives
through the commitment of the Bombela
Concession Company’s socio-economic
development obligations. By October 2012,
the following veriﬁ ed jobs were created:
38 830 jobs for personnel based in South •
Africa
34 900 jobs for local people, i.e. South •
African citizens, compared to an
obligation of more than 19 220
Gautrain
econom
job cre a
investme
With Ga
sector, i
through
Concess
develop
the follow
38 8
•
For “People
on the Move”
30 020 jobs for historically disadvantaged •
individuals, compared to an obligation of
13 800
3 780 jobs for women, compared to an •
obligation of more than 1 580
230 jobs for people with disabilities, •
compared to an obligation of more than
180.
Gautrain has also strengthened existing
development nodes in Gauteng, promoted
urban restructuring and redevelopment
and facilitated the revitalisation of the
Johannesburg and Tshwane central business
districts.
While achieving strategic goals, Gautrain
has not forgotten about those people it
is moving every day. Fares, safety and
security and comfort come ﬁ rst to mind. The
determined fares are based on the principle
of affordability and are highly competitive
compared to other modes of public transport.
They are sufﬁ ciently price-attractive to create
a substantial shift from private car use to
public transport in the form of Gautrain.
Gautrain is not competing with other
modes of public transport, such as taxis and
buses, which all have an important role to
play in the total transport system. Therefore,
a lower limit, which is more expensive than
the other existing modes of public transport,
was set for the Gautrain fares.
Gautrain moves commuters each
day in all directions, providing economic
mobility and the convenience of door-to-
door commuting. The Gautrain system also
comprises a ﬂ eet of modern low-entrance
and low-emission buses with comfortable
seating, providing feeder and distribution
services to and from the Gautrain stations.
The municipal Bus Rapid Transit services are
also integrated with Gautrain at some of the
Gautrain stations. Commuters, therefore, will
not have to experience the same frustrations
and delays as motorists associated with
escalating trafﬁ c congestion.
For “People on the Move” – too true.
Various tools to assist passengers in moving
around on the Gautrain system include an
online map, different smart phone Apps and
a commuter website. With mobile phone in
hand and a Gautrain Gold Card in the other,
Gauteng allows itself to be explored by
virtue of the Gautrain system and its mobile
Apps and mobi-site. These tools provide
instant passenger-relevant information. The
ability to work out the cost of a single trip
between Sandton and Hat ﬁ eld is done via
the fare calculator. Need to use the bus and
parking on one end? Let the fare calculator
do the work. When is the last train? Well, the
timetable feature provides this ever-necessary
information. Where is my closest bus stop?
No problem, the phones’ GPS features an
interactive map, which provides information
on the closest bus stops and train stations.
Since the commencement of operations
of the airport link in June 2010, approximately
27 million passengers have used the Gautrain
on both the airport and general passenger
services. This stands as proof of the Gautrain
actively meeting government’s objective,
which requires the active promotion of public
transport.
Gautrain is more than just a train. Based
in the economic heartland of South Africa,
it is one of several strategically integrated
Gauteng Provincial Government projects. It
is aimed not only at meeting future transport
demands and improving the image of public
transport, but also at moving economic
development and employment creation
upward.
IT IS ABOUT PEOPLE ON THE MOVEGAUTRAIN
A book on the history of the Gautrain
– From Dreams to Reality  – was
recently launched by the Premier of
Gauteng, Ms Nomvula Mokonyane.
“When announced by the
Gauteng Provincial Government, the
Gautrain project was perceived as
ambitious, if not almost impossible
to achieve, only a dream. Today
we know differently, Gautrain is a
celebration of delivering a dream. It
inspires us to hold onto our dreams
for an integrated intermodal safe
and secure public transport system
that will drastically transform the
lifestyle of the people of Gauteng,”
she said.
The interactive coffee table
book tells the Gautrain’s history, a
project that was proof to what the
nation was capable of, the Gautrain
Management Agency said.
The Gautrain’s history is a living
record of valuable lessons learnt,
new skills acquired and successful
partnerships formed, it added.
From Dreams to Reality
DIPLOMACYGAUTRAIN: IT IS ABOUT PEOPLE ON THE MOVE

Diplomacy

Nestled in the leafy suburb of Rivonia, Liliesleaf became a place
of refuge for the leaders and stalwarts of the liberation struggle.
It was a place of dialogue and debate on political and military
policy and strategy; where people from diverse backgrounds
came together to collaborate as a collective with a shared
vision. From Liliesleaf, the Secretariat and High Command
planned and strategised a path that played a seminal role in
changing the course of South African history.
Liliesleaf’s role as the nerve centre of “the resistance” came
to a devastating end with a dramatic police raid on 11 July
1963. Extensive evidence was uncovered, detailing how the
resistance movement intended to overthrow the apartheid
regime. This led to the Rivonia Trial, which in turn resulted in life
imprisonment on RobbenIsland for liberation struggle activists
such as Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Ahmed Kathrada,
Govan Mbeki, among others. Denis Goldberg, the only white
person sentenced, was incarcerated at Pretoria Central.
Through the Rivonia Trial, the essence of the liberation struggle
was given a voice, and subsequently the world’s attention became
focussed on South Africa. The media surrounding the trial and
the harsh sentencing of the accused catapulted the atrocities of
the apartheid government onto the international stage.
Today, Liliesleaf is acknowledged to be the birthplace of MK
(Umkhonto we Sizwe – Spear of the Nation), the military wing
of the ANC.
Through the establishment of the Liliesleaf Trust and the
Legacy Project, Liliesleaf has been restored, preserved and
developed into one of South Africa’s most prominent historical
and educational landmarks. So much more than a museum
or historical site, Liliesleaf is a place of memory and legacy,
activity, dialogue and engagement. The dynamic and interactive
exhibits around the site bring to life the many fascinating stories
and events that help shape the new South Africa.

60 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 61Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
O
R Tambo (27
October 1917 –
24 April 1993)
played a major
role in the
growth and development of the
international movement of solidarity
against racism and apartheid. He,
among other things, established
the ﬁ rst missions of the liberation
movement in Egypt, Morocco,
Ghana and London. This was a
modest start to bring the friends of
South Africa together throughout the
world in a continuous and sustained
mobilisation of the international
community in support of a free
and democratic South Africa
and against the evils of racism,
oppression and Apartheid.
Among black South African
leaders, Tambo was probably
the most highly respected on
the African continent, in Europe,
Asia and the Americas. During
his stewardship of the African
National Congress (ANC), he
raised its international prestige
and status to that of an alternative
to the Pretoria Government. He
was received with the protocol
reserved for heads of state in
many parts of the world.
During his years in the ANC,
Tambo played a major role in the
growth and development of the
movement and its policies. He
was among the generation of
African nationalist leaders who
emerged after the Second World
War who were instrumental in
the transformation of the ANC
from a liberal-constitutionalist
organisation into a radical
national liberation movement,
capable and willing to challenge
the apartheid regime on the
battleﬁ eld.
At the ANC’s 49th National
Conference, held in Durban, South
Africa, in July 1991, after 30 years
of illegality, Oliver Tambo could
conﬁ dently report that he had
fulﬁ lled the mandate of keeping the
ANC together, and he handed over
the movement to Nelson Mandela
to lead it to the ﬁ nal lap of the
struggle.
Tambo was elected national
chairperson of the ANC. He was
also was also chairperson of the
ANC’s Emancipation Commission,
charged with promoting the
emancipation of women. He served
as ANC president from 1967 to
1991 – the longest-serving ANC
president. OR Tambo died from a
stroke on 24 April 1993.
THE LEGACY OF OR TAMBO
“He was
received with
the protocol
reserved for
heads of state
in many parts of
the world.”
Liberation history
Integrity Passion Patriotism Humility
FEATURELIBERATION HISTORY – THE LEGACY OF OR TAMBOFEATURE LIBERATION HISTORY – THE LEGACY OF OR TAMBO
Feature
Feature

62 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 63Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Feature
Feature
W
ant to talk forgiveness,
racial tolerance, social
cohesion and justice?
Okay, good – just
don’t go on a tour
of Constitution Hill. Go somewhere else.
Admittedly, though, the tour guides are
good at calming down tempers. And the skill
occasionally comes in handy during a tour of
this National Heritage Site.
Built on the site of a former prison
complex, Constitution Hill invokes painful
memories of South Africa’s past and brings
into sharp perspective the brutality of the
apartheid system.
To have the Constitutional Court of a
free and democratic South Africa based at
the site of this apartheid prison complex
seems almost paradoxical, for here you have
prejudice and justice under one roof. The
tour guides have a line for it: “We’ve taken
the bricks that used to imprison us to build
a future for our country, to guard against the
possibility of the injustices that happened
here recurring.”
But that hardly makes up for the
humiliation suffered here by black prisoners,
some of whom were common law criminals,
but many more of whom were political
prisoners. The crimes committed by inmates
at this complex varied from shoplifting to
one being a member of a banned political
organisation, such as the African National
Congress, Pan-Africanist Congress or the
South African Communist Party. Some were
arrested for not carrying “passes”, others for
brewing traditional beer while being black (a
crime during apartheid).
The reasons for the hundreds imprisoned
at the Number Four Prison varied, and the
variation also extended to the way inmates
were treated: if you were black, humiliation
and torture awaited you; if you were white,
relative luxury. The intention seems to have
been to break the spirit of black resistance
to apartheid, but some mavericks within the
black anti-apartheid movement upheld their
opposition to the system, despite the harsh
and unjust punishment.
Robert Sobukwe’s words of resistance
are immortalised in the former prison: “We
refuse to plead because our contention is
that the law under which we are charged is
a law made exclusively by the white man,
speciﬁ cally for the oppression of blacks.”
The story of the Number Four Prison,
including the discrimination inside, is better
told by the former inmates themselves.
These include such famous political ﬁ gures
as Nelson Mandela, Mahatma Gandhi,
Robert Sobukwe, Winnie Madikizela-
Mandela, Helen Joseph and more.
Others, like former inmate Cornelius
Manoto, are not well known, but their stories
are not less alarming: “To eat from rusted
containers was terrible; not to speak of the
treatment from warders. Every morning, we
would stand in the shade feeling cold not
even seeing the sunshine. In the court we
will be stripped naked and subjected to utter
humiliation of the worst order.”
Barbara Hogan, another former inmate,
explains the racial preferential treatment:
“This cell (in the white section of the
Women’s Jail) was like none other I had
CONSTITUTION
HILLHILL
ever known. A Van Gogh interior, wooden
ﬂ oors, sash windows, three simple beds, a
table and chairs. Freezing cold, certainly, but
compared to police cells, absolute luxury.”
Those who envisaged the concept of a
Constitutional Court at the site of an apartheid
prison complex say the project symbolises
South Africa’s intricate and painful journey
from apartheid to freedom.
The transition was unprecedented in its
efﬁ ciency, but the wounds are still fresh, and
a lamentation by a former inmate betrays the
apparent peace that exists between our past
and our present.
“We’ve taken
the bricks
that used to
imprison us to
build a future for
our country, to
guard against
the possibility
of the injustices
that happened
here recurring.”
FEATURECONSTITUTION HILL – HEALING OLD WOUNDS THROUGH A NEW JUSTICE SYSTEMCONSTITUTION HILL – HEALING OLD WOUNDS THROUGH A NEW JUSTICE SYSTEMFEATURE
HEALING OLD WOUNDS
THROUGH A NEW JUSTICE SYSTEM
By Nelson KgweteBy Nelson Kgwete
Director: Media LiaisonDirector: Media Liaison
Department of International Relations and CooperationDepartment of International Relations and Cooperation

64 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza 65Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
York, the World Architectural Festival in
Barcelona and the Florence Biennial in Italy.
The museum offers a wide variety of
exhibitions and public programmes –
speciﬁ cally revolving around the
memorialisation and the depiction of the
apartheid narrative. The Red Location
Museum moreover operates under the
motto: “A world-class museum bridging
the past towards the future”, and seeks
to engage the public in educational
and awareness-raising programmes on
arts, culture and heritage; to lend itself
to partnerships and collaborative work;
to partake in poverty alleviation and
entrepreneurship-growing initiatives; to
adhere to international codes of practices;
and to embrace ongoing intellectual
engagements and critiques.
“A world-class museum bridging
the past towards the future”
RED
ATION
ing the
owards
g
future
diplomacy in action
e
R
ed Location is one of the
earliest black townships
of Port Elizabeth, Nelson
Mandela Bay, and acquired
its name due to a series
of historic corrugated iron ediﬁ ces, which
were rusted a deep red colour, and which
stemmed from the First South African War
(1899 to 1902).
The area became a national hotspot
during the anti-apartheid struggle and
many prominent leaders, such as Nelson
Mandela, Govan Mbeki, Raymond Mhlaba,
Vuyisile Mini and Francis Baard played a
distinctive political role here.
The ﬁ rst cell of Umkhonto we Sizwe
– the former military wing of the African
National Congress – was established in
Red Location by Nelson Mandela and the
RED
LOCATION:
A symbol
of our freedom
ﬁ rst arrests during the National Deﬁ ance
Campaign of 1952 transpired at the Railway
Station in the area.
The Red Location Museum is a primary
development of the Red Location Cultural
Precinct, which is a not-for-commercial
urban renewal development under Nelson
Mandela Bay Municipality. Here, visitors are
treated not as mere consumers but rather
as active participants.
The museum has scooped several top
international awards for its spectacular
architecture (World Leadership – 2005,
Dedalo Minose – 2006 and the RIBA
Lubetkin –2006) and has furthermore
been exhibited/featured, together with the
completed structures of the Red Location
Art Gallery and Electronic Library/Archives,
at the Museum of Modern Art in New
CONTACT DETAILS:
Tel: +27 (0) 41 408 8400
Fax: +27 (0) 41 408 8401
 www.redlocation.org.za
FEATURE RED LOCATION: A SYMBOL OF OUR FREEDOM RED LOCATION: A SYMBOL OF OUR FREEDOM FEATURE
The Red Location Museum in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, is a symbol of South Africa’s struggle for freedomThe Red Location Museum in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, is a symbol of South Africa’s struggle for freedom
64 65UNTU UBUNTUNTU
fuu
diplomacy in actiondiplomacy in actiondiplomacy in action
u
Issue 2 Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTUDIRCOzaD
www.www.dirco.gov.zawww.
e
@theDIRCOza thedircoza
Feature
Feature

66 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 67Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
In the next decade, emerging-market economies are, for the ﬁ rst time
in modern history, set to contribute more to global economic growth
than the developed ones. This global rebalancing, together with the
spread of low-cost airlines, air-space liberalisation, the removal of visa
barriers and the growing popularity of online bookings, underscores
that the extensive BRICS cooperation and partnership on travel and
tourism among not only businesses but also governments offers
boundless opportunities.
IMPORTANT VEHICLE FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION
Being witness to the evolution of the emerging economies, we
cannot but celebrate the unique potential of the tourism sector to
grow exponentially from low baselines over short periods. This sector
is a haven for small enterprises, and, as a labour-intensive sector
with a supply chain that cascades deep into national economies and
communities, it is an important vehicle for social inclusion. It provides
fast uptake for newly skilled workers, especially women and young
people, in urban and rural areas alike. Each job in the tourism sector
creates just under two jobs in the broader economy.
South Africa is an emerging economy where we have experienced
ﬁ rst-hand the amazing potential of this sector. In 1993, before the
country’s ﬁ rst democratic elections, South Africa had just over
3,3 million international arrivals. Today, the country has 12 million
international arrivals, of whom 8,3 million are tourists. As it stands,
tourism contributes 9% to the gross domestic product (direct and
indirect), and supports one in every 12 jobs in South Africa. And we
believe the best is yet to come: government and industry are united in
their commitment to grow international arrivals to 15 million by 2020.
The new growth will depend heavily on South Africa’s marketing
investment in China, Brazil and India. China is undoubtedly an
important market, and, in 2011, there was double-digit growth in
tourist arrivals from China’s shores. Government is excited about the
recent introduction of direct ﬂ ights between Beijing and Johannesburg
in addition to those non-stop options between Hong Kong and
Johannesburg and remains committed to ensure that tourism ﬂ ows
represent a two-way trade.
AFRICA A MAJOR SOURCE MARKET
Africa is emerging as a major source market. Middle-class households
on the continent already outnumber those in major emerging markets
such as India. Half a billion people on the African continent are
already connected to the world through mobile devices. In a mere
three years from now, there will be just over 50 African cities with
populations exceeding three million. Airline passenger numbers in
Africa are expected to increase from 71 million in 2011 to 150 million
by 2030, at which point Africa’s urban population of some 750 million
will exceed all the current city dwellers in the West.
EMERGING CONSUMER MARKETS
Today, every tourist destination with a long-term view understands
that a sound growth strategy for a resilient and sustainable tourism
sector depends not only on a diversi ﬁ ed portfolio of geographic
source markets, but also on a diversiﬁ ed and continuously innovated
product and experience offering. It is about growth and creating new
markets; it is about unlocking new sources of competitive advantage;
and it is also about risk management and keeping pace with evolving
consumer preferences.
Today’s discerning consumers are demanding, and opt for
ever-increasing customisation and personalised travel itineraries.
A signi ﬁ cant number of these consumers are seeking greater
authenticity through experiential, interactive and specialised travel
– rather than mass or “one-size- ﬁ ts-all” package tourism. Higher
Internet penetration, online sales and the spread of mobile commerce
will only accelerate this trend.
By developing balanced product portfolios that cater for the
needs of emerging consumer segments, we are able to break
through the ceiling of current offerings. We can create new demand
(or make the pie bigger) and capitalise on niche markets that often
offer more lucrative yields than mass-based markets. Many of these
niche markets hold huge potential, such as cultural, heritage, rural
or community-based, ecological, food and wine, and health and
wellness tourism.
Many of these tourist activities are often located outside traditional
tourist areas. This means that more dispersed opportunities are
created and more local communities are therefore empowered. In
addition, niche subsectors often also require more specialised skills,
meaning that better-quality jobs are created.
Niche markets often soon become the new “mass”. It is a common
misconception that diversifying into new niche segments necessarily
means small volumes. Niche markets also have volume. A case in point
is the China National Tourism Administration’s drive towards investment
in, and the development and uptake of, ”red tourism” opportunities in
China (i.e. encouraging visits to Chinese revolutionary sites) during
the year of ”patriotic tourism” that marked the 90th anniversary of the
Communist Party in 2011. The number of visitors to historic buildings
and sites topped 360 million in China that year.
The challenge is to adapt existing offerings, leverage current
man-made and natural infrastructure and create new unique visitor
experiences that play to the country’s strengths. By diversifying
product portfolios, we enhance our international competitiveness in
traditional and emerging source markets alike.
By Mr Marthinus van Schalkwyk
Minister of Tourism
FFEAFEAFEAFEATURTUTURTUREE
 TOURTOUROUROU ISM ISM SECTSECTOR TOR TO SPOS PO SPUR GUR GUR GLOBALOBALOBAL ECL ECL ECONOMONOMONOMIC RIC RC RECOVECOVECOVECOVERYERYERYRER
G
lobally, the tourism sector is making history in
2012, in more than one way. Firstly, this is the
year in which we expect to reach one billion
international tourist arrivals worldwide. Secondly,
this is the year in which tourism took a signiﬁ cant
step forward on the international agenda when G20 heads of state
and governments recognised the critical role of tourism as not only
a driver of growth and development, but as a sector to spur global
economic recovery.
Much work remains to be done to position the tourism sector
to realise its full potential in terms of job creation, social inclusion,
services exports and foreign exchange earnings; fostering a
better understanding between peoples and cultures; and green
transformation.
EMERGING-MARKET ECONOMIES ARE BOOSTING GLOBAL
TOURISM FLOWS
Fortunately, we are witnessing multispeed growth. The emerging
economies continue to drive the recovery in international tourist
ﬂ ows. While Europe stagnates, those countries in the emerging-
market economies are boosting global tourism ﬂ ows and outbound
spend. By 2015, the emerging economies are expected to account
for 40% of all global departures.
The rise of the Chinese outbound market as well as those in other
emerging economies also tracks the global geopolitical and economic
rebalancing that have been underway over the past decade. This
is very clearly demonstrated by what we have witnessed while the
world economy doubled in the last decade, where a third of the global
economic growth came from the Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa (BRICS) countries.
TO SPUR GLOBAL ECONOMIC
RECOVERY
In the next decade, e
in modern history se
SPUR GLOBAL ECONOMIC
Tourism sector
 By Marthinus van SchalkwykBy Marthinus van Schalkwyk
Minister of TourismMinister of Tourism
FEATURETOURISM SECTOR TO SPUR GLOBAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY
Feature
Feature

68 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 69Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
FEATURE TABLE MOUNTAIN – A SEVENTH WONDER OF NATURE
I
n December 2012, Table Mountain
was ofﬁ cially inaugurated as a New
7 Wonder of Nature.
According to the New7Won-
ders Foundation, which is based in
Switzerland and regulated under Swiss law,
hundreds of millions of votes were cast for 28
ﬁ nalists across the world.
The other six wonders are the Amazon
forest in South America, Halong Bay in Viet-
nam, the Iguazu Falls in Brazil and Argentina,
Jeju Island in South Korea, Komodo Island
in Indonesia and the Puerto Princesa under-
ground river in the Philippines.
Table Mountain has withstood six million
years of erosion and hosts the richest, yet
By Jerry Matjila By Jerry Matjila
Director-General: Director-General:
Department of International Relations and CooperationDepartment of International Relations and Cooperation
  A SEVENTH WONDER OF NATURE
FEATURETABLE MOUNTAIN – A SEVENTH WONDER OF NATURE
TABLE
MOUNTAIN
smallest ﬂ oral kingdom on Earth with over
1 470 ﬂ oral species. The ﬂ at-topped moun-
tain boasts numerous rare and endangered
species. It is the most recognised site in
Cape Town, owing to its unique ﬂ at-topped
peaks which reach 1 086 m above sea level.
Visitor numbers to Table Mountain
reached record numbers after the mountain
was named on the provisional list of seven
sites on 11 November 2011, and the of ﬁ cial
conﬁ rmation is expected to further boost visi-
tor interest locally and abroad.
It forms part of the Table Mountain Na-
tional Park – one of 21 parks managed by
South African National Parks.
Feature
Feature

70 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 71Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Top 10 Top 10
reasons to reasons to
visit South Africavisit South Africa
4. Adventure
South Africa is the adventure capital of the world. With
over 130 adventures and counting, there is something
for everyone, from mountain walks to shark cage-diving!

5. Good weather
In sunny South Africa, our great weather invites you
to enjoy the outdoors, play golf year-round and take
advantage of the nearly 3 000-km coastline.

6. Rainbow nation
The Rainbow nation celebrates all its African and
immigrant cultures. Find out how friendly our people are
while you try your tongue at 11 ofﬁ cial languages!

1. Affordable
During these tough times, who doesn’t want an affordable
holiday? In South Africa, you can even afford luxury and
have spending money for shopping and other treats!

2. Natural beauty
South Africa’s scenic wonders are legendary. From Table
Mountain to God’s Window, our mountains, forests,
coasts and deserts will feast your eye and lift your spirit.

3. World-class facilities
Whether you opt for Afro-chic or authentic Africa, you’ll
ﬁ nd it easy to get around, ﬁ nd a comfortable place to
stay, have a great meal, connect.
7. Diverse experiences
Go almost anywhere in South Africa and experience the
ultimate combo of nature, wildlife, culture, adventure,
heritage and vibe – you’re spoilt for choice, so pack it
in!

8. Wildlife
Warning! Watching wildlife is addictive. First you start with
the Big Five in so many ways, then whales, penguins,
meerkats, wild dogs, birds and dung beetles.

9. Freedom struggle
Discover a nation’s struggle for freedom while following
the footsteps of Mandela, Hector Pieterson and many
other celebrated revolutionaries. It will touch and inspire
you.

10. Responsible tourism
In South Africa you can travel with care as you explore
our protected areas, contribute to social and conservation
projects, buy recycled art and stay green.
LIFLIFFESTESTTTTYLEYLELELYLE
 TOP TOP TOP TOP 10 R10 R10 R10 REASOEASOEASOEASOE NS TNS TNS TNS TOVOV IO VIO SITSIT SOUTSOUTH AFFFA RICACACACACACACCACAAACACRICACARICAA
 TOP TOPTOPTO 10 R0R10 EASOEASONS TNS TO VIOV ISIT SIT SOUTSOUTH AFH AFH A RICARICAC
 LIFESTE YLEYLE
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
Source: www.southafrica.net

72 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 73Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
I always turn to the sports section
ﬁ rst. The sports page records people’s
accomplishments; the front page has
nothing but man’s failures.
Earl Warren, United States Chief •
Justice, 1968
The sports of the people afford an index
to the character of the nation.
Frederick W Hackwood, British •
sportswriter, 1907
I
n many parts of the world, sport
has played a catalytic role – in
some cases minor and in other
cases major – in establishing and
accelerating social cohesion in a
nation.
Race discrimination came to a formal end
in South Africa with the election of the ﬁ rst
democratic Government in 1994. However,
issues of race relations still linger in many
facets of South African society. But sport is
playing an important and crucial aspect in
establishing social integration in the country.
Although social cohesion in sport
in its broadest form has a long history,
socialisation in sport with regard to race
commenced as a widespread international
phenomena only in the late 1960s. It became
South Africa went, it saw, it conquered.
Nelson Mandela was invited and he
was accorded head of state status at the
opening ceremony. South Africa returned
with two silver medals, one in tennis and
the other in athletics. The athlete was Elana
Meyer, a small, slightly built white girl from
Stellenbosch, a town then well known for its
resistance to integration. But on her return
to South Africa, a large group from Soweto
welcomed her with banners stating “Elana
and Soweto are Friends Forever”.
In fact, the motto for the Barcelona
Games was “Friends Forever”.
The road to Barcelona started the slow
but encouraging process of social cohesion
in South Africa.
Nelson Mandela has always maintained
that:
“Sport has the power to change the world.
It has the power to inspire. It has the power
to unite people in a way that little else has
… It is more powerful than governments in
breaking down racial barriers.”
His campaign to utilise the Springbok
team’s participation in the Rugby World
Cup held in South Africa in 1995 has
been widely publicised in the ﬁ lm Invictus.
Mandela effectively used the parading of the
Springbok team and its mass support by the
white population to cement unity of all the
country’s race groups.
John Carlin, author of the book recorded
the happenings most vividly:
Reports washed in from the afﬂ uent suburbs
of Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth
and Johannesburg that white matrons
were shedding generations of prejudice
and restraint and hugging their black
housekeepers, dancing with them on the
leafy streets of prim neighbourhoods …
Archbishop Tutu, who also had a keen nose
for news agreed. The black celebrations
were the story. ‘What we saw that day was
a revolution”, said Tutu, joyous that he lived
to see his country give birth to a new model
of revolution, one in which the enemy was
eliminated, he was brought into the fold; that
instead of dividing the people, uniting them.
The way South Africa sees its sport was
adequately portrayed when former Deputy
President of South Africa, Ms Phumzile
Mlambo-Ngcuka, addressed a prestigious
sports gathering and minced no words
generally accepted that participation in sport
“leads to the formation of a great number of
social relations of an of ﬁ cial and unof ﬁ cial
character, on the basis of which appear
speciﬁ c forms of social behaviour operating
beyond the bounds of the sports movement,
which encourages social integration at
various levels of social life.”
No doubt, the South Africa’s apartheid
government, fully conversant with the power
of sport in bringing down and dismantling
racial barriers, resisted the introduction of
sports integration to maintain its white racial
purity and this was amply demonstrated
when in September 1965, South Africa’s
apartheid newspaper and the mouthpiece of
the then government, Die Transvaler, stated
in its editorial:
“In South Africa, the races do not mix on the
sports ﬁ eld. If they mix ﬁ rst on the sports ﬁ eld,
then the road to other forms of social mixing
is wide open … With an eye to upholding the
white race and its civilisation not one single
compromise can be entered into.”
On the other hand, South Africa’s major
liberation movement, the African National
Congress (ANC) understood the importance
of sport in the nation-building process and its
positive impact on social cohesion.
As early as 1991, long before the
envisaged democratic elections, the
ANC, cajoled by the International Olympic
Committee (IOC), had no hesitation in
agreeing to South Africa’s participation in the
1992 Barcelona Olympic Games.
The dismantling of the racial structures
in sport was just the beginning. The major
sports bodies were still nearly all white. But
the ANC and the overwhelming majority of
the anti-apartheid sports structures were
determined that South Africa would take part
in the Barcelona Olympic Games.
But why the hurry? Sport was not
integrated. Development to address the
inequities of the past hadn’t yet begun.
The need for real transformation was being
overlooked in a crazed dash to enable
readmission into international sport. This was
the view of a large sector of the political left.
But it was necessary to appreciate the
broader picture. South Africa’s progressive
sports movement and the ANC wanted to initiate
social cohesion in advance of establishing a
democratic government in the country. What
better opportunity was there than to participate
in the Barcelona Olympic Games.
s secti on
 generally accepted
Sport
nt, it saw, it conquered.
Nelson Ma ndela was in vited and he
was accorded head of state status at th e
been widely publicised in the ﬁ lm
 Invictus
.
Mandela effectively used the parading of the
Springbok team and itsm ass support by the
ation of a great number of
ano fﬁcial and unofﬁcial
positive impact on social cohesion.
As early as 1991 long befo re the
South Africa wen
d that participation in sport
 of sport in the nation-building process and its
& social     cohesion
By Sam RamsamyBy Sam Ramsamy
Executive Board Member, Executive Board Member,
International Olympic Committee International Olympic Committee
President, International Swimming Federation President, International Swimming Federation
President, African Swimming ConfederationPresident, African Swimming Confederation
Did you know?
South Africa ﬁ nished the 2012 London
Olympic Games as Africa’s best performing
country, placed 24th on the medals table.
With three golds, two silvers and one bronze
medal, the London Olympics were South
Africa’s most successful Games since the
country was readmitted to the Olympic fold
at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics.
The gold medalists were:
the men’s lightweight four rowing team:  •
Sizwe Ndlovu, Matthew Brittain, John
Smith and James Thompson
Cameron van der Burgh•
Chad le Clos.•
The Paralympic Games was held from
29 August to 9 September. The South African
Paralympic team returned home with a total
of 29 medals – eight gold, 12 silver and nine
bronze.
The gold medalists were:
Natalie du Toit (3)•
Oscar Pistorius (2)•
Charles Bouwer•
Ilse Hayes•
men’s 4x100m Relay (Arnu Fourie, •
Samkelo Radebe, Zivan Smith and
Pistorius)
Fanie van der Merwe.•
about sport achievements. She honestly
stated that the only time that all members of
Parliament – ruling party and opposition –
unashamedly hugged each other was when
a South African team or individual won an
international contest.
The 2012 London Olympic Games
illustrated the whole of South Africa’s joy
when 20- year-old Chad Le Clos, not only
gained a gold medal in the 200 m butter ﬂ y
swimming event, but beat the legendary
American, Michael Phelps, who only
managed to come second. There was a
general good feeling throughout the country.
The Olympic Games has undoubtedly
become the greatest social force in the
world today. “No monarch ever held sway
over such vast expanse of territory.” – Avery
Brundage, Opening of the IOC session in
Rome, 1960.
LIFESTTYLE
 SPORPORRRRRRRRRRRRTA NTA NT ANTATA NT ANT ANT ANNNANANNNNDS OD SOD SOSODS ODDSD SODDD SOD SOOD CIACIACC ALAALLC AAC LC  COHCOHOHHHHHHCOHCOHOHOH CO ESIESEESIOSIOOOOOEEES NNNNNNNN
 LIFESTYLESPORT AND SOCIAL COHESION

74 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 75Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
LIFESTYLEBEST CREW IN THE WORLDLIFESTYLE BEST CREW IN THE WORLD
O
ne of South Africa’s highlights at the recent
Olympic Games in London was the achievements
of the country’s lightweight fours team in what was
described as one of the greatest rowing ﬁ nishes
the Olympics has ever seen.
On 2 August at Eton Dornay, the green-and-gold machine
surged from fourth position with 500 metres to go, eclipsing Australia,
Denmark and Britain to win gold by 0.25 seconds.
The achievements of South Africa’s Olympic Oarsome Foursome
– Sizwe Lawrence Ndlovu, Matthew Brittain, John Smith and James
Thompson – didn’t end there. They recently received the World
Rowing 2012 Male Crew of the Year Award in Ireland at a gala dinner
held by FISA, the World Rowing Federation, which explained that
the “spectacular Olympic gold medal performance by South Africa’s
lightweight men’s four, the ﬁ rst for a rowing team from Africa” was
one of the main reasons why the crew was chosen for the award.
They also received the Team of the Year Award at the South African
Sports Awards held in Sandton.
The foursome go back a long way, having honed their rowing
skills at school level.
Ndlovu was born in Newcastle, KwaZulu-Natal, and matriculated
at Mondeor High School in Johannesburg. Thompson, who was
born in Cape Town, went to St Andrew’s Prep before moving on to
St  Andrew’s College in Grahamstown, while Smith and Brittain, both
born in Johannesburg, also rowed at school level.
They joined the under-23 camp at Rowing South Africa after high
school, where they each became medal winners in their own right
before embarking on a joint Olympic training programme.
South Africa’s Oarsome Foursome plans to share their best-
team-in-the-world as well as their best-team-in-South Africa
experience – and what brought them to this awesome pinnacle in
their rowing career – because they believe strong team-building and
a united vision are as vital to business success as it is in competitive
athletics.
After receiving the Crew of the Year Award and arriving in South
Africa, Ndlovu said: “This is an awesome moment for our team and
we’re going to share this inspiration and energy with South African
businesses because there are huge similarities between our winning
as a team and winning in business”.
“When you consider the teams we were up against, it is beyond
anything we ever dreamed could happen,” says Ndlovu, who the
team calls their “rhythm man” as the others follow his lead regarding
the speed and rhythm of the oars. “Really it’s like walking on the
moon.”
“Best “Best
crew in the world”crew in the world”
According to Thompson, who sits in the bow position at the opposite
end of the four-man boat: “We worked and trained like crazy, six
hours a day, two and three times a day, seven days a week, with our
mental vision on gold at the Olympics … and this Crew of the Year
Award really wasn’t even on our radar! And then a few days later to
ﬂ y back to South Africa and get ‘Best South African Crew’ … well
it’s beyond words. It’s a magniﬁ cent moment for all of us and we’re
going to include it in our presentation to share with business teams
where unity of vision and mutual trust is as important as it is to us
in our boat.
“Etana Insurance is a major supporter of rowing and has put a
team together to help us to produce a motivating presentation to help
us earn additional income so we can support ourselves for the next
four years between now and the Olympics in Brazil. The purpose of
the presentation is to inspire business teams. It shows our training
and competitive footage and it’s very satisfying that our athletic
success can have a practical impact on motivating teams to win in
the corporate world because that has all kinds of far-reaching effects
in very practical ways.”
Brittain explains: “There are lots of parallels between winning in
sport and winning in the commercial world. We are really enjoying
giving those motivational talks and sharing our insights.”
Smith is the joker of the team and says: “Keeping your weight at the
right level to qualify for lightweight status is as important as having
instant energy at hand, so we always make sure we have a packet
of M&Ms at hand.”
Paolo Cavalieri is a South African born to Italian parents who has
been inﬂ uencing South African rowing as chair of the International
Commission in charge of training and selection. He is also chair
of Etana Insurance, which has put a team together to make sure
commerce and industry can be inspired by the Olympic victory. “This
is a proud moment for South Africa and rowing and their presentations
are motivating local businesses. It turns out that not only are these
guys Olympic champions in a boat, they are also terriﬁ c and humorous
motivational speakers which was an unexpected discovery.
“What a lot of people don’t realise is that the intense dedication
these four have had to give to their sport has brought signi ﬁ cant
ﬁ nancial strain for each of them. The fact that they have proved
themselves to be as good at inspiring business teams as they are
at winning medals and awards is going to help them to support
themselves … and there’s four years to go to Brazil 2016.
“The foursome go back
a long way, having
honed their rowing
skills at school level.”
Lifestyle
Lifestyle

76 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 77Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
Did you know?
Charlize Theron was recently in South Africa
for the ﬁ lming of Mad Max: Fury Road .
The ﬁ lm beneﬁ tted from the Department of
Trade and Industry’s Film and TV Production
Incentive. The incentives are allocated to
producers and ﬁ lm companies that use
South Africa as a preferred ﬁ lm location.
Fury Road was approved on 28 June 2012
with an incentive of R81 million. It is the
largest feature ﬁ lm to date to be done in
South Africa by Warner Bros. A portion of
the movie was ﬁ lmed in Namibia. Shooting
was done in Cape Town and the production
was expected to support over 800 jobs in the
industry.
I
n 2008, South African-born Academy
Award-winning actress Charlize
Theron was designated as a United
Nations (UN) Messenger of Peace
with a special focus on eliminating
violence against women
.
Messengers of peace are individuals
who possess widely recognised talents in the
ﬁ elds of art, ﬁ lm, literature, music and sports,
helping to raise worldwide awareness of the
organisation’s ideals and activities. Through
their public appearances, contact with the
international media and humanitarian work,
they expand public understanding of how
the UN helps to improve the lives of people
everywhere.
An activist and an acclaimed actress, she
founded the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach
Project, in partnership with the Entertainment
Industry Foundation, to create a safer, healthier
and better life for impoverished children and
their families in South Africa, especially those
suffering from HIV and AIDS. As its ﬁ rst
mission in 2007, the project collaborated with
Oprah’s Angel Network to create a mobile
health and computer unit designed to improve
the health and social development of youth
in Umkhanyakude District. Thousands of
students in this remote community now have
access to counselling and testing for HIV and
other health issues, and receive computer
training and health education, with a special
focus on preventing HIV.
Theron also ﬁ lmed a series of public
service announcements in support of the Cape
Town Rape Crisis Centre, urging no tolerance
for rape or domestic violence.
Announcing her designation at the time,
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said:
“You have used your voice, compassion and
special relationship with the public to create a
better world. I am convinced you would be a
persuasive and powerful Messenger of Peace.
You have consistently dedicated yourself to
improving the lives of women and children in
South Africa, and to preventing and stopping
violence against women and girls. I look
forward to working with you to end this terrible
scourge.”
Some of the ﬁ lm roles she has chosen
reﬂ ect her concern with the issue of violence
against women. Theron is perhaps best known
for her Oscar-winning performance in Monster,
in which she played Aileen Wuornos, a serial
killer whose youth was characterised by abuse.
In North Country, her character, Josie Aimes,
was a woman with a history of domestic abuse
who fought back against sexual harassment.
United Nations Messenger of Peace
United Nations Messenger of Peac
United Nations Messenger of Peac
CharlizeCharlizeTheronTheron
In Zulu, there’s a word, “Ubuntu,”
which translated means, “I am
because we are”. It’s the idea that
to be human is to be interconnected
with one another. As we are united,
I believe we all have a responsibility
to help each other. Together,
standing in solidarity with those
on the frontlines in Africa, we can
make a difference.
– CharlizeTheron (www.charlizeafricaoutreach.org)
LIFESTYLE CHARLIZE THERON:  UNITED NATIONS MESSENGER OF PEACE
UNITED NATIONS
LIFESTYLECHARLIZE THERON:  UNITED NATIONS MESSENGER OF PEACE
A strongerA stronger
UN forUN for
a bettera better
worldworld
UNITED NATIONS

78 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 79Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza
D
esign talent from the Arican continent and its Diaspora
was acknowledged at the Fourth Annual Africa Fashion
Awards in Johannesburg on 28 October 2012. The
awards were the end-result of over 20 shows in the
inaugural Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Africa.
Designers from South Africa, Côte d’Ivoire, Mozambique, Cameroon,
Rwanda,  Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Trinidad, Nigeria,
Ghana and the African Diaspora participated. Nomination criteria
included the notion that their work represents a strong emergence of a
global African signature along with measuring the potential global reach
of their brand.
African Fashion International Executive Chairperson, Dr Precious
Moloi-Motsepe, said the awards rewarded African fashion excellence
using global industry criteria and recognised the exceptional talent of
African industry members worldwide.
International Relations and Cooperation Minister, Ms Maite Nkoana-
Mashabane, attended the ceremony and presented some of the
awards.
Winners included:
Nigerian Designer, Ituen Basi, won the Designer of the Year: Africa •
Award
designers in the spotlight
Africa’s
fashion
Ghanaian-born, American-based designer, Mimi Plange, was •
announced as Designer of the Year: International Award
Mozambican Taibo Bacar won the Emerging Designer of the Year: •
Africa Award
Côte d’Ivoire-born and Paris-based, Laurence Airline, won Emerging •
Designer of the Year: International Award
The Accessories Designer of the Year Award went to Doreen Mashika •
from Zanzibar
South Africa’s Thula Sindi was crowned the SA Tourism Designer of •
the Year
The African Fashion Awards Young Designer of the Year Award was •
presented to Capetonian, Kim Gush.
Judges included local and international fashion leaders such as Felicity
Spies of Egality, Robyn Cooke of Style Guide Cape Town, Bryan
Ramkilawan, CEO of Cape Town Fashion Council, Elle magazine’s
Fashion Director, Poppy Evans, and internationally-acclaimed fashion
journalist and Vanity Fair Editor-at-Large, Michael Roberts.
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
LIFESTYLEYYLYYYLYYYYYLLLLLL
 AFRIRIRIRIRIIR CA’SCA’SCA’SCA’SCA’SA’A’CA’SCA’SCA’SCA’SACAA’CAA S FASFASFASASASASASASASASASFFAASSSSHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIONHIOONONONN DES DESDESDESSSSDESDESDESSSSSIGNEIGNEGNEGG RS IRS RS RS RSRRS N THT E SPOTLIGH
T
 AFRIA CA’SS FASFA HIONO  DESSIGNERS IRS N THTHE SPES OTLIOTL GHTGHT
 LIFESTESTYLELE

80 UBUNTU diplomacy in action Issue 2  DIRCOza
www.dirco.gov.za
 @theDIRCOza 81Issue 2 diplomacy in action UBUNTU  thedircoza