seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Newsflash545-20-10-2022.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Newsflash545-20-10-2022.pdf
title: Newsflash545-20-10-2022.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Issue 545 | 20 October 2022





If this newsletter doesn’t load or images don’t display, please click here




PRESIDENT REITERATES SA'S SUPPORT FOR WESTERN SAHARA'S
INDEPENDENC

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]

President Cyril Ramaphosa has
reaffirmed South Africa’s support
for the Sahrawi Arab Democratic
Republic, commonly referred to as
Western Sahara, which has endured
a long territorial dispute between
Morocco and its indigenous Sahrawi
people.

“Morocco’s illegal occupation of Western Sahara
remains a matter of concern to both Africa and the
international community,” the President told media
on Tuesday, 18 October 2022.
This year marks the 46th anniversary of the illegal
occupation of Western Sahara by Morocco.
President Ramaphosa believes that the international community should be pressured so that the long-delayed referendum on the self-
determination of the people of Western Sahara is held.
According to France24, Morocco controls 80% of the vast desert region, rich in phosphates and with a long Atlantic coast abutting rich
fishing waters.
“Until the people of Western Sahara are able to exercise their right to self-determination, the decolonisation of Africa will be incomplete,”
said President Ramaphosa.
President Ramaphosa was hosting his Western Sahara counterpart, President Brahim Ghali, at the Union Buildings in Pretoria.
The State Visit was aimed at strengthening the already existing good political relations fortified by the strong historical ties dating back
from the years of the struggle against colonialism and apartheid.
“As a country whose freedom was attained with the assistance of international support and solidarity, South Africa stands with the
Sahrawi people in their struggle against illegal occupation.”
He told media that the country would continue to maintain strong bilateral relations with Western Sahara, which South Africa formally
recognised on 15 September 2004.
“South Africa has continued to reiterate its principled position in support of the peace efforts of the African Union (AU) and the United
Nations (UN) on the protracted Western Sahara conflict.”
He also recalled that on 26 March 2019, South Africa hosted the Southern African Development Community Solidarity Conference with
Western Sahara.
“The conference reflected on the southern African countries’ support by friends in the international community, [for] a just, acceptable and
lasting solution to the situation.”
The State Visit, according to the President, should send a strong signal that South Africa would continue to strive for the self-
determination of the Sahrawi people and that the country's position remains unchanged and resolute.
The President said the visit had helped strengthen and consolidate the fraternal relations between the two countries.
“It has provided an opportunity to exchange views on recent developments related to the question of Western Sahara.”
He said the country would continue to mobilise regional, continental and international support towards a sustainable resolution to the
Western Sahara conflict, in line with the provisions of the 1991 Ceasefire Agreement.
“We reiterate the need to return to direct dialogue between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front without preconditions,” he
stressed, adding that South Africa would continue to advocate for the active participation of African countries in the resolution of the issue
of Western Sahara.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
“We call on the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco – as member states of the AU – to prepare conditions
for a new ceasefire and a just and durable solution to the conflict.”
Africa, according to the President, must remain true to the Constitutive Act of the AU.
“As the international community, we must affirm the principles of the UN Charter, uphold international law and implement the resolutions
of the UN Security Council.”
He thanked the President for the fruitful discussions and assured him of the continued support for the struggle of the people of Western
Sahara.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


SA ON THE CUSP OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN INVESTMENTS
President Cyril Ramaphosa says the
"phenomenally successful” official
State Visit to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia this weekend had paved the
way for billions of dollars’ worth of
investments to flow into South
Africa.

The visit to the Middle Eastern country from 15 to 16
October 2022 was aimed at strengthening bilateral
ties and trade relations between the two countries.

The President was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor; Minister of Agriculture,
Rural Development and Land Reform, Thoko Didiza; Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition, Ebrahim Patel; Minister of Mineral
Resources and Energy, Gwede Mantashe; and Minister of Transport, Fikile Mbalula.
The ministers signed at least 17 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) in areas such as transport, defence, energy and agriculture.
Coupled with that, some US$15 billion in investment agreements were signed between businesses during the South Africa-Saudi Arabia
Investment Forum, held in the country on Saturday, 15 October 2022.
“This has been a phenomenally successful visit for us and the good thing is that this visit has been more focussed on the economy as
well as advancing our diplomatic, as well as political, relations with Saudi Arabia.
“But the economic side and the business side have really underpinned the real substance of this visit. We had extensive discussions with
His Royal Highness the Crown Prince [Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud] last night … and we covered a great deal of
ground. The fact that we signed up to 17 MoUs testifies to the real great success that we have achieved here,” he said.
President Ramaphosa reflected that the last official State Visit to the country in 2018, where Saudi Arabia committed to invest some
US$10 billion in South Africa, in many ways planted the seed for fostering greater ties between the two countries.
“That seed has been germinating and thus far US$1 billion has been invested in South Africa through a company called ACWA Power
and Renewable Energy. We are now going to be seeing more of those billions that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is very keen to invest in

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
South Africa, beginning to flow underpinned by the 17 MoUs that we have signed, and of course, our budget in 2018.
“COVID-19 intervened and stalled and delayed everything [however] we’re now going to see everything gathering pace and momentum,”
he said.
Bearing fruit
President Ramaphosa emphasised that although many agreements had been signed, implementation was key to see them bearing
tangible fruit.
Within three months, meetings will be held to “see the extent to which this is going to be implemented”.
“Both private-sector-owned businesses as well as public-sector-owned businesses are very serious, they are action-oriented, they're
outcomes-oriented [and] they want to see implementation. [The] Crown Prince and myself have committed that we are going to be
monitoring the implementation of all this.
“We want the implementation to be immediate. For us on our side, clearly, we are in a great deal of hurry. The unemployment rate in our
country is undesirable and we need to ensure that whatever economic opportunities we get, we grasp with both hands and ensure that all
those who are responsible get to implement,” he said.
Relations between the two countries have been formalised since 1994 and President Ramaphosa said this longstanding cordiality was a
good foundation on which to build.
“[The] solid relationship that exists between our two countries is a good springboard from which to be able to base the great success that
we hope to achieve. So, we’re very happy and I think we go home not empty-handed.
“During the business forum, businesspeople were able and Saudi businesspeople were able to craft agreements that will amount to about
US$15 billion both ways. So, I'm looking at easily, quite a lot of billions of dollars being invested also in our economy.
“So, I think we are on a good roll in terms of our relationship with Saudi Arabia, which is based on really solid economic parameters and
that, for me, behoves well for a future that will be a good one for all peoples,” he said.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


MINISTER PANDOR DELIVERS CLOSING KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT THE
FT AFRICA SUMMIT IN LONDON


The Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Dr
Naledi Pandor, participated in, and
delivered, the closing keynote
address at, the Financial Times’
Africa Summit taking place in
London, United Kingdom, from 17 to
18 October 2022.

Organised under the theme, “Investing in Africa”, the
summit brought together high-profile delegations of
governments, businesses, policymakers and
investors.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Among other things, the summit deliberated on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine, the run-up to COP27 in
Egypt, how African economies are laying out their priorities in the energy, transport, manufacturing and other sectors, and how the Africa
Continental Free Trade Area is changing the investment environment on the continent.
Minister Pandor spelt out the South African Government’s foreign policy in relation to the identified thematic areas.
The Minister touched on:
the security challenges facing Africa and the world
the growth prospects of the African economy in the context of the African Continental Free Trade Area
the urgent need to reform the global economic and political governance architecture
some of the potential catalysts as well as impediments to Africa’s prosperity.


MINISTER PANDOR CONCLUDES SUCCESSFUL WORKING VISIT TO
KOREA AND JAPAN

The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, on 13 October 2022,
concluded her successful Working Visit to the Republic of Korea and the State of Japan. Minister
Pandor visited Seoul from 10 to 12 October 2022 and Tokyo from 12 to 13 October 2022.

In Seoul, Minister Pandor and her counterpart, Park JIN, co-chaired the inaugural Korea-South Africa Joint Cooperation Commission
(JCC). Minister Pandor said the JCC succeeded in revitalising the bilateral relationship between South Africa and Korea at political,
economic, social and technical levels.
Minister Pandor took advantage of her presence in Seoul to interact with the leadership of the Korean business community. The Minister
said South Africa remained an attractive investment destination and that the challenges currently facing the world economy required a
united international response.
In Tokyo, Minister Pandor co-chaired the Japan-South Africa Partnership Forum with her counterpart, Hayashi Yoshimasa. The two
ministers focussed their discussions on political, economic, social and technical cooperation between South Africa and Japan. The
ministers also exchanged views on regional, global and multilateral issues of mutual interest.
While in Tokyo, Minister Pandor delivered a keynote address at a gathering of Japanese business leaders, organised in partnership with
the Japan External Trade Organisation. Entitled, “Unlocking Africa’s potential through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)”,
the Minister’s speech focussed on, among other things:
the opportunities offered by the AfCFTA in various sectors of the African economy
challenges in the implementation of the AfCFTA and how these can be overcome
the impact of the prevailing geopolitical situation, with particular reference to armed conflicts and the post-COVID response.
Minister Pandor said South Africa maintained good bilateral relations with both the Republic of Korea and the State of Japan and that the

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
JCC and the Partnership Forum, respectively, provided opportunities to elevate relations.


DEPUTY MINISTER MASHEGO-DLAMINI BEGINS THREE-NATION TOUR
OF THE CENTRAL AFRICA REGION

The Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Candith Mashego-Dlamini, has
arrived in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, where she begins her three-nation tour of the Central
Africa region.

The visit is aimed at strengthening political, diplomatic, trade and investment relations between South Africa and the three countries.
In Malabo, the Deputy Minister will hold consultations with Simeon Oyono Esono Angue, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Equatorial
Guinea.
South Africa and Equatorial Guinea have agreed on the need to strengthen South-South cooperation and inter-Africa cooperation and
trade, especially in light of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement.
The two countries have committed themselves to work together to champion Africa’s quest for peace and stability in line with the
collective vision encapsulated in the African Union’s Agenda 2063.
At the conclusion of her visit to Equatorial Guinea, the Deputy Minister will proceed to Gabon and Cameroon.


DEPUTY MINISTER MASHEGO-DLAMINI ON A WORKING VISIT TO THE
SEYCHELLES
The Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Candith

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Mashego-Dlamini, co-chaired the
Third Session of the Joint
Commission of Cooperation (JCC)
between South Africa and the
Seychelles on 14 October 2022 in
Seychelles.

The JCC is held on a biennial basis, with the Mid-
Term Review in between. The Seychelles has
expressed interest in expanding and deepening its
relations with South Africa.

Bilateral relations between South Africa and the Seychelles, which were established in 1992, are cordial and guided by the General
Cooperation Agreement, signed by the respective foreign ministers in January 2007.
Relations have been further strengthened by the escalation of the Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) to a JCC at Deputy Minister level in
March 2018.
The JCC meeting strengthened bilateral relations and sought ways and means of promoting and enhancing cooperation between the two
countries.
The meeting between Deputy Minister Mashego-Dlamini and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Tourism, Sylvestre Radegonde,
assessed progress made in the implementation of the agreed-upon work plans emanating from the March 2018 JCC, the 2019 Mid-Term
Review and the July 2022 SOM.


DEPUTY MINISTER BOTES UNDERTAKES AN OFFICIAL VISIT TO
LITHUANIA


The Deputy Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation, Alvin
Botes, undertook an Official Visit to
Vilnius, Lithuania, from 12 to 13
October 2022. Deputy Minister Botes
participated in the Bilateral Political
Consultations at the invitation of his
counterpart, Vice Minister Mantas
Adomėnas.

The Deputy Minister also held consultations with the
Lithuanian Minister for Economy and Innovation,
Aušrinė Armonaitė, to discuss possibilities for
enhanced economic relations and technical
cooperation.
Relations between South Africa and Lithuania are founded on strong historical solidarity ties and mutually shared values of democracy,
equality and social justice.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Relations continue to expand with significant growth in economic trade, multilateral cooperation and technical support for South Africa’s
national priorities in areas such as digitalisation, science, innovation and research.
While in Vilnius, the Deputy Minister also participated in an investment roundtable hosted by the Lithuanian Chamber of Industries. A total
of 25 companies attended.


PROF. DE OLIVEIRA'S WORK CONTINUES TO GARNER GLOBAL
COMMENDATION

The Health Ministry has
congratulated globally acclaimed
bioinformatics scientist, Professor
Tulio de Oliveira, on his continued
recognition for his sterling genomic
sequencing work that led to the
discovery of the Omicron variant of
COVID-19.

“Prof. De Oliveira was praised by speaker after
speaker at the World Health Summit in Berlin,
Germany,” said the Health Ministry on Sunday,16
October 2022.

The Deputy Minister of Health, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, who led the country's delegation to the 2022 summit, said the country was
fortunate to have scientists like De Oliveira, whose work continues to break new ground and put the country on the map.
“We are so thrilled to have such globally recognised scientists like De Oliveira, whose great work helped our country and the World
Health Organisation to detect new variants, and also understand their circulation to adapt our response strategies accordingly, and to
anticipate the new waves,” said Deputy  Minister Dhlomo.
Deputy Minister Dhlomo believes that the successful management of the pandemic in South Africa is attributed to strong collaboration
between government, the scientific community, the private sector and other stakeholders.
The Deputy Minister also expressed his gratitude to another local scientist from the National Institute of Communicable Diseases, Dr
Natalie Mayet, for her great presentation that summarised the role and excellent work of ministerial advisory committees during the peak
of the pandemic.
The World Health Summit is a strategic forum for global health, which strengthens exchange and stimulates innovative solutions to health
challenges. It also fosters global health as a key political issue and promotes the global health debate in the spirit of the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals.
This year’s conference focussed on “making the choice for health” by reflecting on the most pressing topics.
These included investment in health and well-being, climate change and planetary health, architecture for pandemic preparedness, digital
transformation for health and global health for peace.
On the sidelines of the summit on Monday, 17 October 2022, Deputy  Minister Dhlomo delivered a presentation on sustainable
pharmaceutical manufacturing in Africa (towards the global procurement of African-manufactured medical products).
– Source: SAnews.gov.za

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]


ASSOCIATION OF WORLD ELECTIONS BODIES GENERAL ASSEMBLY
MEETS IN CAPE TOWN


Delegates of more than 60 countries
have descended on South African
soil to attend the Association of
World Elections Bodies' (A-WEB)
first and historic meeting on the
African continent from 18 to 20
October 2022.

The A-WEB 5th General Assembly, which
incorporates the A-WEB Executive Board Meeting
and an international conference, got underway on
18 October 2022, with delegates from electoral
authorities all over the world.
Addressing the media in Cape Town, newly appointed Chairperson of the Independent Electoral Commission, Mosotho Moepya, said the
Electoral Commission of South Africa was pleased that it would take over the Chairship of the global body and would have the
opportunity to lead it and serve the objectives of electoral democracy even as it enriches the organisation with the African experience
during the course of the tenure.
“We currently act as Deputy Chairperson of A-WEB and, in accordance with the processes of the A-WEB, we will succeed India at this
meeting as the A-WEB Chairperson,” he said on Tuesday, 18 October 2022.
Moepya said the Electoral Commission of South Africa accepted the enormity of the challenge that it was assuming through being
entrusted with the chairship of this world body.
“The commission looks forward to working with sister election management bodies, in particular our African colleagues, to raise electoral
excellence in electoral democracy not only within Africa, but across the world,” Moepya said.
Moepya explained that the Deputy Chairperson would automatically assume the role of the next chairperson in 2024 at the Sixth General
Assembly. At this meeting, there will also be elections of the members of the Executive Board.
The General Assembly will be followed by an International Conference whose theme is: “Safeguarding Election Management Bodies in
the Age of Global Democratic Recession”.
Moepya said the commission was extremely proud that this important discussion was taking place on South African soil.
“The business of the International Conference is important to sustaining electoral democracy and, as such, it is anticipated that this
conference will generate ideas to mitigate the erosion of electoral democracy globally,“ he said.
In line with the expected outcomes of the conference, the commission has invited internationally renowned scholars to present papers on
the conference theme.
The Secretariat of the A-WEB at the Fifth General Assembly and International Conference Director-General, Jaewon Kim, acknowledged
Moepya and the Electoral Commission for the commitment to making the General Assembly meeting a great success.
“I felt how hard all of the Electoral Commission of South Africa have worked to make this event possible.
“Together with the Electoral Commission of South Africa, the A-WEB Secretariat will do its utmost efforts in making the General Assembly
fruitful by facilitating discussions and the exchange of experiences among participants,” he said.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]

A-WEB was founded in October 2013 with the vision to foster efficiency and effectiveness in conducting free, fair, transparent and
participative elections around the world.
The commission’s delegation was led by the  newly-appointed Chairperson of the commission, Moepya, while the secretariat of A-WEB
was led by a new Secretary-General to be elected at the General Assembly.
– Source: SAnews.gov.za


UNATHI LUTSHABA HONOURED BY UN WITH “MOST INFLUENTIAL”
TITLE

Unathi Lutshaba is officially one of the world’s
most influential people of African descent as
chosen by the United Nations (UN). She was
honoured due to her work as the Executive
Director of the SA Cultural Observatory.

Included in Most Influential People of African Descent’s (MIPAD)
global Top 100 Under 40 sector in the Activism and Humanitarian
Category, Unathi received the recognition at the UN’s headquarters
in New York.
MIPAD identifies high achievers of African descent in the public and
private sectors from all around the world as a progressive network
of relevant actors to join together in the spirit of recognition, justice
and development of Africa, and it’s people on the continent.
The event ran for five days and included leadership training, panel
discussions and opportunities to work and collaborate with fellow
recipients from around the world.
Unathi Lutshaba is a Mandela University Alumnus and today, is
based out of the university’s building where she works towards
researching South Africa’s diverse arts and cultures.

She graduated from the university in 2011 with a Master’s degree in Development Studies. Since then, she has headed up a research
team building evidence and influencing policy in the music, visual arts and film industry, for the good of creatives and the country’s
economy.
“The creative world is no longer about art for art’s sake, but rather an undervalued and under-supported industry with untapped potential
for generating economic growth and social unity”.
This country’s cultural and creative industry accounts for 6% of all jobs and in 2020, it directly contributed R161 billion, or 2.97%, of the
country’s gross domestic product.
Her contribution to research and understanding this sector has greatly empowered South Africans, which is why today, she is one of the
world’s most influential people of African descent!


SOUTH AFRICAN RESTAURANT TOPS WORLD’S EXTRAORDINARY

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
FINE-DINING LIST

“Travel + Leisure” has released a list of the top 10 Extraordinary Fine-dining Experiences
Around the World – from dinner under the sea to lunch in an ice cave – and a South African
restaurant has found itself at the top of the list!

The publication highlighted one-of-a-kind eating experiences that are unavailable anywhere else on the planet. Some of these
destinations lean toward theatre, while others border on the surreal.
“Dinner under the sea. Lunch inside an ice cave. Small bites in a subterranean root cellar. A wine-paired picnic on a lava field. They say
you eat with your eyes first and nowhere is that truer than at the world’s most unique fine-dining restaurants and otherworldly
environments where the settings are as epic and imaginative as what’s on the plate.” – Travel + Leisure
From Waldorf Astoria in the Maldives to Eden Roc Cap Cana in the Dominican Republic, the full list takes us deep into caves and even to
Richard Branson’s private island.
But the restaurant that brings us all the feels is Klein Jan in the Kalahari!
From kneading dough in the farmhouse kitchen of his childhood in Mpumalanga, South Africa, to running his own restaurant in Nice,
France, Jan-Hendrik’s journey has taken many unexpected turns. In 2019, he opened KLEIN JAN in the heart of the Kalahari.
Klein Jan is at Tswalu Kalahari, one of South Africa’s leading private game reserves; an untamed, untouched, unspoiled refuge that
celebrates the simple, authentic splendours of this magical region.
Driven by his values of local authenticity, heritage and sustainability of the environment, Klein Jan will become the region’s culinary
epicentre, a place where the Kalahari’s unique ingredients will be translated into world-class cuisine.
“The adventure begins en route to this one-of-a-kind dining destination since wildlife and matchless landscapes encompass the drive in.
Combine a century-old farmhouse in the midst of the Kalahari Desert’s iconic orange sand, an awe-inspiring subterranean root cellar 13
feet below, and a soaring dining room open to the wild, and you start to get the picture of Klein Jan, a transportive culinary experience
created by Michelin-starred chef Jan Hendrik van der Westhuizen for South Africa’s largest private safari reserve. The surprises are
endless and stupendous, both in the way diners physically move through the meal and the flavours, textures, and stories packed into the
delectable journey that is distinctly of the Kalahari. This is no passive lunch or dinner; it’s participatory, immersive, and wildly thrilling,
mysteries unfolding with every exceptional bite.” – Travel + Leisure
‒ Source: www.goodthingsguy.com



CAPE TOWN IS AFRICA’S BEST DESTINATION, TRAVEL AWARDS SAY

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
– BUT DURBAN BEATS IT FOR EVENTS


For the fourth year in a row, Table
Mountain has been voted Africa’s
leading tourist attraction in the
World Travel Awards 2022 for Africa.

The Table Mountain Cable Way is also in the
running for the World’s Leading Cable Car Ride.
It was the fifth win for the mountain attraction. The
V&A Waterfront and Robben Island were also in the
running, as was Mount Kilimanjaro, that has five
wins under its belt too.
While Cape Town bagged a handful of wins ‒ such as Africa’s Leading City Destination and Leading Airport ‒ Durban came out tops in
the Events and Festivals Category for the second year in a row and was elected for the sixth year in a row as Africa's Leading Meetings
and Conference Destination. Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi was chosen as Africa's Leading Meetings and
Conference Centre.
The Silo Hotel in Cape Town did a double as well, being voted Africa's Leading Design Hotel as well as Africa's Leading Luxury Hotel.
The Saxon Hotel, Villas and Spa in Johannesburg was again elected Leading Boutique Hotel, and the Nelson Mandela Platinum Suite at
the hotel was voted Leading Hotel Suite.
The Leading Hotel in Africa is the Fairmont Mount Kenya Safari Club in Nanyuki.
Silvan Safari in Mpumalanga came out tops in the Leading Luxury Lodge Category. It was voted the top luxury lodge in the world for the
last four years and is in the running again.
The Leading Private Game Reserve is Shambala Private Game Reserve in Limpopo, and the Leading Safari Lodge is Earth Lodge @
Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve in Mpumalanga.
The Serengeti in Tanzania is the Leading National Park in Africa again.
The Blue Train has no competition in this race and got its 14th nod as the continent’s Leading Luxury Train. It was nominated as the
Leading Luxury Train in the World again this year.
On the booking side of the business, South Africa scored two more wins: Flight Centre was voted Africa's Leading Travel Agency, and
Rennies BCD Travel is Africa's Leading Travel Management Company.
The Leading Beach Destination is again Zanzibar, and the Leading Beach Resort is Swahili Beach in Kenya.
– Source: www.businessinsider.co.za


SEA POINT RANKED AMONG “51 COOLEST NEIGHBOURHOODS IN THE
WORLD"

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Global magazine “Time Out”
recently released a list of what they
think is the 51 coolest
neighbourhoods in the world, with
Sea Point, ranked at 38 and two
other African neighbourhoods also
included in the list.

Those involved in the article polled 20 000 city-
dwellers and asked local experts to rank the
greatest places for fun, food, culture and community.
Every year, the magazine combines input from its
global network of local editors and writers with
thousands of city-dwellers around the world to
establish the coolest spots in their city right now.

“The neighbourhoods we’ve featured below are, simply put, incredible places to be right now. They’re areas with accessible, cutting-edge
culture and nightlife; brilliant and affordable food and drink; lively street life and big community vibes,” Time Out said.
“They’re distinctive districts that you can walk across in half an hour or less, but could spend a whole day or more exploring. They’re great
areas for people to live, visit and stay. They’re places that mix up the best of the old and new schools,” it added.
The magazine describes Sea Point as “Cape Town’s cool beachfront face”, with various choices of hotels and diverse food options, and
“spine-tingling” sunset views to cap off a busy day of fun and exploring, which many Capetonians would agree with.
Describing the “perfect day” in Sea Point, the magazine suggests kicking it off with a morning swim at the Sea Point Pavilion, followed by
a trip to Mojo Market where at least 30 vendors offer a variety of food and beverage choices.
“Work your way around Regent Street’s vast array of shopping options before packing up a picnic ready for a light lunch on the beach –
then why not kayak out into the Atlantic to spot some dolphins?
“Back on dry land, you should walk along the promenade at dusk before sitting down at La Perla: a restaurant known for its seafood
dishes and elevated tables ideal for gawping at the sunset,” Time Out adds.
The other African neighbourhoods on the magazine’s list are Kilimani in Nairobi, Kenya and FESTAC Town in Lagos, Nigeria.
Kilimani is described as the place to “find the heart and soul of Nairobian life” with its vibrant arts and entertainment, an indigenous forest
and a sprightly social scene that includes art galleries, nightclubs, coffee shops and bars, and some of Nairobi’s best restaurants.
– Source: www.capetownetc.com


THESE SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS HAVE JUST BEEN ANNOUNCED AS
THE BEST IN THE WORLD!!!

For their 35th annual Readers’ Choice Awards
survey, a record 600 000 registered "Conde
Nast Traveler" voters weighed in on their
favourite resorts and hotels in the world.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]


The Condé Nast Traveler Readers’ Choice Awards are the
longest-running and most prestigious recognition of excellence in
the travel industry.
“The numbers prove what we already knew: Enthusiasm for travel
has never been higher, as demonstrated by the nearly quarter of a
million of you who filled out this year’s survey. This year’s list is a
testament to the staying power of perennial favourites, through
thick and thin ‒ with some newcomers to consider. Here are the
best resorts in the world, as voted by Traveler readers.”
Here are the South African resorts that global trotters most loved
this year.
Number 20 – Grootbos Private Nature Reserve
“For a long time, lodges in South Africa tended to be geared toward the Big Five. Grootbos, on the fynbos slopes near Walker Bay, south
of Cape Town, is different. This 6,177-acre private reserve is about treasuring the smaller, finer things. With 889 plant species, seven of
which are newly discovered, it is first and foremost a rare botanical treasure trove, in which owner Michael Lutzeyer has employed some
of the Cape’s leading botanists and entomologists. The lodges are glassy and contemporary, but there’s a constant call outdoors ‒ from
the outside showers to tracking elusive aardvark and Cape leopard, or having lantern-lit dinners in a 1,000-year-old milkwood forest, all
fairy-tale tangles. You can ride horses across the sands, past ancient sea caves; go on flower safaris, tree-planting expeditions, and
whale-watching flights to see the calving Southern right whales that migrate inshore between July and December. Most of the food on the
carbon-negative reserve is grown on site, and nothing comes from more than 30 miles away, with many of the staff graduates of the in-
house hospitality academy. But the main takeaway of Grootbos is that just stopping and looking ‒ at the interconnectedness and mad
beauty of life ‒ is the most mesmerizing thing of all.”
Number 7 – Singita Sabi Sand
“Singita Sabi Sand includes three well-appointed options that provide an elegant base from which to bask in the natural beauty of one of
South Africa’s most renowned game reserves. Singita’s founding property, Ebony Lodge, sits surrounded by a grove of its namesake
trees, with 12 suites inspired by old explorers’ camps. Boulders Lodge, meanwhile, was named after the ancient rocks strewn along the
banks of the Sand River, and the 12 glass-fronted suites have artfully pared-down interiors, featuring fossilized tree stumps and other
found objects. And Castleton Lodge occupies the ancestral home of Singita founder Luke Bailes. Its Cape Dutch charm, mullioned
windows, antiques, expert safari guides, and longtime family staff remain ‒ but the wine cellar, state-of-the-art kitchen, and full gym are all
new."
Number 42 – Cape Cadogan Boutique Hotel
"This elegant 15-room Georgian-era townhouse is tucked away in a residential street in Gardens, a fashionable, upbeat neighbourhood
known for its restaurants, bars, and interior design shops. Table Mountain forms a majestic backdrop, Lion’s Head beckons. From the
outside, Cape Cadogan looks like a beautiful private home complete with crisp white paintwork, black shutters, manicured garden, and
pool terrace. Step inside and you enter a world of Bohemian chic. It won’t be easy to find a smart room in such a brilliant location, as
slickly managed, luxurious, or private at this price anywhere else in Cape Town."
Number 38 – One&Only Cape Town
"Cape Town’s only urban resort One&Only has a prime Waterfront location next door to the Two Oceans Aquarium and is within strolling
distance of the Water Shed, an indoor market filled with must-have local designer brands. Much more of a resort than a hotel, it has
space in abundance and everything is dramatically scaled, including the reception lobby leading into Vista Bar and Lounge, the social

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
heart of the hotel where cocktails, high tea, and light meals are served in great style. Triple-volume glass windows frame views of Table
Mountain, and the air is infused with a distinctive woody room fragrance—something you remember instantly as a returning guest. The
spa is a destination in its own right, situated on its own island, with 12 treatment rooms, private wet areas, and a yoga pavilion in the
garden. Make use of the spa thermal suites, even if you don’t book a spa treatment. His-and-hers hydrotherapy facilities each have a
vitality pool, aroma-steam room, sauna, ice fountain and experience showers".
Number 26 – Babylonstoren ‒ Franschhoek Valley
"What if you could actually visit the Garden of Eden? And what if it was surrounded by vineyards, historic Cape Dutch farm buildings, and
a formal French-style potager garden, where you could pick your own strawberries and fragrant herbs? At Babylonstoren, in the
Drakenstein Valley, 33 miles northeast of Cape Town, the mythical garden comes to life. Founded in 1690, the 590-acre compound is
modelled on the farms that supplied the ships making their way around the Cape of Good Hope en route to India. The cottages and suites
are minimalist but stylish. You won’t find a grand lobby or an obsequious concierge here, but the staff, most of whom are wearing T-
shirts, aprons, or khakis, combine a genuine eagerness to help with a high level of knowledge about the farm and its long history. Stay
long enough and eventually ‒ after a visit to the on-site bakery, the winery, the cheesemaker, the butcher, and the farm-tank-style
swimming pool ‒ you may forget that you’re staying at a hotel."
– Source: www.goodthingsguy.com


BRAILLE TRAIL LAUNCHED IN WORCESTER

The trail at a popular botanical
garden is accessible to people who
use wheelchairs and people who are
blind or visually impaired.

The Karoo Desert National Botanical Garden is a
spectacular showcase of flora from South Africa’s
arid and semi-arid regions. Located in Worcester,
the garden is famous for its kokerboom, succulents,
aloes and bright coloured vygies (when in season).
And with a brand-new braille trail, these attractions
have become more accessible than ever.

Designed for blind or visually impaired people and people who use wheelchairs, the 154-m long trail was launched on 30 September.
Visitors to the trail are treated to a sensory experience with plants and rocks that can be touched and aromatic plants that can be
smelled.
“The main attraction is the explanations of our plants,” said Ricardo Riddles, Garden Manager at the Karoo Desert National Botanical
Garden. He explains that what makes this trail different is that people can interact with the storyboards. “You can read it in braille, you
can read it in words, but you can also listen … using a QR code,” he said. These educational inserts are translated to English and
Afrikaans and some of the audio transcriptions are in Dutch.
Along the lizard shaped pathway, recorded recitals by local poets can be listened to. David Kramer, who was born in Worcester, is one of
the artists and has recorded a song for the trail. All of this is easily accessible with the use of raised flower beds, which means people
don’t have to bend down to touch the plants on the ground. And while similar trails depend on a rope for direction, this trail uses a brick
curb and tactile paving to guide people.
Riddles says that the design was created with help from the Pioneer School for the Visually Impaired in Worcester. The trail cost about
R330 000 to build. This covered items such as the paving, the erection of the flowerbeds, benches and trees.
The Braille Trail is about 150-m long.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
Fifteen-year-old Jeanne-Chayil Arendse is a Grade 9 learner at the Pioneer School. She started losing her eyesight in 2016 and is blind
today. “I really enjoyed it,” she said. She used a cane to navigate through the trail. She said that she really appreciated the raised flower
beds, making the plants easy to touch. Her favourite part of the trail was the textured rocks.
Arendse said that she had been to many parks that are not accessible to blind people and she would need to use a guide to get around
and orientate herself. This isn’t ideal, she says. “Sometimes you just don’t want people around you and you just want to connect with
nature.” Arendse hopes that there will be more accessible parks in the future. Trails like this help “my people connect with the world and
nature,” she says.
The idea for the braille trail originated in 2014, but the project only received funding in 2021. Some of this funding came from the Rowland
and Leta Hill Trust, the Cape Winelands Municipality and the Botanical Society of South Africa.
Riddles said that he felt relieved now that it’s complete but there is more that he wants to do. “Currently, the garden is about 20%
wheelchair friendly. I want to push that to a higher level … to 80%“. But to achieve this, he says it will require a lot more funding.
– Source: www.goodthingsguy.com


SA’S LEWIS PUGH SWIMMING FROM SAUDI ARABIA TO EGYPT WITH
URGENT MESSAGE

British-South African endurance
swimmer Lewis Pugh – who is
currently swimming across the Red
Sea (the first person to ever do so!)
– has swum into Sharm El-Sheikh
with an urgent message for world
leaders, who will be gathering at the
Egyptian resort soon in time for this
year’s crucial UN Climate Summit
(COP27).

He says:
“I’m bringing world leaders a message: If we don’t
drastically cut our emissions, we risk losing all the
world’s coral reefs. That would be devastating.”
The 52-year-old, who is the UNEP (United Nations Environmental Programme) Patron of the Oceans, is tackling this challenging Coral
Swim to urge heads of state, business leaders and delegates at COP27 to take “bold climate action”.
Lewis says:
“Let’s leave the talking behind and have some real action. It’s what we do now and not what we say now that will determine the fate of
Red Sea Coral Reefs and all of us.”
Precious coral reefs, he says, are being destroyed by warming oceans. This two-week 160-km swim from Saudi Arabia to the Sinai
Peninsula, Egypt, is the hottest swim of Pugh’s life. Normally famous for his Arctic endeavours, this time he’s swimming in water
temperatures that can reach 31°C. The air temperature can exceed 40°C.
Pugh, who set off on 11 October, says “the water in the Red Sea is oppressively hot. It drains your energy almost instantly. And it poses
serious risks to the body.”

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
By swimming in this warm water for four hours a day, Pugh risks hyperthermia (the opposite of hypothermia), which can lead to
dehydration and heat stroke, “which could severely damage my muscles and even my brain“.
Lewis says every fraction of a degree of warming matters … for our bodies and for the planet.
“If we continue to overheat our planet, we’re on course to lose 99 % of all coral reefs, and so much more. No matter where you are on
this planet, this WILL impact you,” he says, adding that this is why he is urging all nations to drastically cut their emissions without any
further delay.
He has been joined along the way on his #CoralSwim by Egyptian swimmer Mostafa Zaki and Dr Mariam Saleh Bin Laden who just
became “the 1st Arab, the 1st Saudi and the 1st woman to swim from Saudi Arabia to Egypt”.
Lewis says: “There’s an old African proverb: ‘If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.’ I need to do both.”
This is the first ever swim across the Red Sea from Saudi Arabia to Egypt, swimming over some of the most incredible and biodiverse
coral reefs in the world.
– Source: www.sapeople.com


STEPHEN MOKOKA WINS HIS THIRD CAPE TOWN MARATHON

Defending champion Stephen Mokoka again showed why he is South Africa’s premier
marathoner as he claimed a third win in Sunday’s Cape Town Marathon.

The Olympian and multiple SA Champion broke the tape in 2:09:58, three seconds faster than his winning 2:10:01 last year, and the
fourth-fastest winning time in the race’s history.
Second place went to Ethiopian Derseh Kindie Kassie in 2:11:26, with countryman Dagnachew Adere Maru (2:11:52) outsprinting
Kenya’s Raymond Kipchumba Choge (2:11:55) to take third place.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
In the women’s race, Meseret Dinke Meleka of Ethiopia took line honours in 2:24:02, smashing the 2:25:44 record (run in 2021 by Lydia
Simiyu), and also breaking her personal best (PB) of 2:25:12. Second over the line was Kenyan Tecla Kirongo in 2:27:56 ‒ also setting a
new PB (her previous best was 2:28:22).
Another Kenyan, Judith Cherono, took third in 2:30:32. The first South African to finish was Stella Marais, clocking 2:38:34 to claim eighth
position.
The leading men ran conservatively in the first half of the race, passing halfway in 1:05:36, with Mokoka biding his time near the front of
the lead pack until the 32km mark. He made his move and steadily increased his lead over the last 10km ‒ he was 21 seconds clear of
second-placed Kassie at 35km, and just over a minute clear at 40km.
“This was a tough, tough course. Normally at 25km you start enjoying a marathon, but at 28km today, we climbed that hill in District Six
and it got really hard for a while, but overall, I really enjoyed the race,” he said.
“I really hope this race does become an Abbott World Marathon Majors race, and I hope that government, corporates and runners all get
involved to make it happen.”
– Source:www.timeslive.co.za


SA BLACKBALL TEAM WIN BIG IN MOROCCO, BRINGING HOME 32
MEDALS

The South African blackball squad
has flown the flag high in Morocco
and brought home 32 medals and
several world champions to boot!

Blackball is a sport similar to billiards, however,
played on a smaller table and is also referred to as
English Pool. It was created in the 1980s and has
grown in global popularity since then. It is played by
two players with 16 balls (one white cue ball, one
black, seven red and seven yellow).
It is an incredibly easy game to follow as a
spectator, which is what makes it so popular in pool
halls and pubs as well.

Blackball South Africa put together a team of players pooled from leagues throughout South Africa. The team was hopeful and worked
hard to earn their titles and medals.
The team brought home a total of 32 medals, which were made up of 11 gold, 13 silver and eight bronze. They shared their excitement
and pride via Facebook, calling the squad champions for their efforts.
“South Africa leads the pack on the medals table!
What an achievement, what a squad…what CHAMPIONS they are!
Congratulations to our entire squad. Y’all played your hearts out in Morocco and just look what you’ve done!
Salut SA!
Now travel home safely and enjoy these glorious moments”.

DIRCO Electronic Newsletter
file:///I/dfa/dircoenewsletter/newsflash545-20-10-2022.html[2023/02/17 13:15:42]
– Source: www.goodthingsguy.com


Stay connected with us
 For back issues of NewsFlash, visit: http://www.dirco.gov.za/department/newsflash.html