seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Ubuntu-30-BRICS-Special-230823-Final-1.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Ubuntu-30-BRICS-Special-230823-Final-1.pdf
title: Ubuntu-30-BRICS-Special-230823-Final-1.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – BRICS SPECIAL
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVERON THE COVER
South Africa became Chair of BRICS on 1 January 2023
under the theme: BRICS and Africa: Partnership for
Mutually Accelerated Growth, Sustainable Development
and Inclusive Multilateralism. The country is hosting
the XV BRICS Summit from 22 to 24 August 2023 in
Johannesburg.
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor
Delien Burger – burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Photo Editor
Yolande Snyman – snymany@dirco.gov.za
Photographers
Department of International Relations and Cooperation; Government Communication and Information System; South
African Tourism; UN Photo; Adobe Stock; South African Radio Astronomy Observatory; Hollywoodbets Durban July
Facebook page; The Melrose Gallery; Candiese Lenferna/Gold Circle/Gameplan Media Stuart Queripel/ Gameplan
Media; Instagram@jessicankosi; Twitter@Nandi_Madida; Groot Constantia Facebook page; and FYN Restaurant
Facebook page
Acknowledgements
President Cyril Ramaphosa; Dr GNM Pandor, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Mauro Vieira, Minister
of Foreign Affairs of Brazil; Sergey Lavrov, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation; Subrahmanyam
Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs of India; Patricia de Lille,  Minister of Tourism; Dr Chana Pilane-Majake,
Deputy Minister for Public Service and Administration; Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs;
Dr Nkosinathi Sishi, Director-General of the Department of Higher Education and Training; Prof. Sarah Mosoetsa,
Interim Chairperson of the BRICS Think Tank; Dilma Rousseff, President of the New Development Bank; Prof. Anil
Sooklal, Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS and South Africa's BRICS Sherpa, Department of International
Relations and Cooperation; Wandile Sihlobo, Chair of the BRICS Agribusiness Working Group, BRICS Business
Council (BBC); The BRICS Women's Business Alliance; Mapule Ncanywa, Chairperson: Skills Development Working
Group, South Africa BRICS BBC; Natasha Rockman, Department of Tourism; Busi Mabuza, Chairperson of the
South African BBC; Prof. Siphamandla Zondi, National Planning Commission of South Africa; Department of Small
Business Development; Daan du Toit, Deputy Director-General: International Cooperation and Resources, Department
of Science and Innovation; Wamkele Mene, Secretary-General, African Continental Free Trade Area Secretariat;
Teniola Tayo, Institute for Security Studies Consultant and Principal Adviser, Aloinett Adviser; Thembela Vokwana
Lecturer, University of Fort Hare; Gwen Ansell, Associate of the Gordon Institute for Business Science, University of
Pretoria; Brent Lindeque, www.goodthingsguy.com; www.sahistory.org.za; www.themelrosegallery.com; and Eat Out
Advertisers
Vodacom Business, World Food Programme, MTN, SA Mint, Wines of South Africa, Brand SA, BAIC Automobile SA,
Ubuntu Radio, Hisense, African Union, Veenwouden Private Cellar and the Apartheid Museum
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation, e-mail address and
delivery address in the body to maebaf@dirco.gov.za.
Back-issue enquiries
maebaf@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Assistant Editor
Janine Duminy – duminyj@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 8552
Distribution
Fhulu Maeba – maebaf@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1613
10th Anniversary of Madiba's Passing

98
contents
UBUNTU magazine – BRICS SPECIAL
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6 Welcome message by HE President Cyril Ramaphosa
10 BRICS partnership has great value for South Africa
12 BRICS collaboration helps find solutions for challenges
facing the global South
16 The 2023 BRICS Summit: A return to dialogue and
cooperation
18 Towards a Just World Order
20 Outcomes of the 2023 BRICS Academic Forum: Fostering
cooperation and advancing research
24 Outcomes of the 2023 BRICS Academic Forum: Fostering
cooperation and advancing research
28 The New Development Bank: Built by and for developing
countries
32 BRICS at 15: Youth as drivers of the BRICS Agenda
34 What has BRICS done thus far to serve the agribusiness and
agriculture communities?
38  BRICS Women's Business Alliance: Unlocking the Gender
Dividend
42 South Africa to host BRICS Future Skills Challenge
44 Partnership between BRICS and Africa will unlock mutually
beneficial opportunities
45 Creating resilient South African cities
47 BRICS: Equipping learners with skills fit for the future
49 BRICS Partnership: Forging strong-people-to-people ties
52 BRICS advances African Tourism Agenda
42
South Africa to
host BRICS Future
Skills Challenge
102
34
What has BRICS
done thus far
to serve the
agribusiness
and agriculture
communities?
88
Five things you didn’t know about
Africa’s most loved destinations
Esther Mahlangu: South Esther Mahlangu: South
Africa's global ambassadorAfrica's global ambassador
The empire sings back: The The empire sings back: The
deep history behind SA's deep history behind SA's
soprano Pretty Yende's soprano Pretty Yende's
triumphtriumph
54 Reimagining the BRICS Business Council to institutionalise a legacy
of delivery
56 Call to action: South Africa's second Voluntary National Review for
sustainable development 2024
60 Fostering partnerships with BRICS energy investors
66 BRICS benefits Eastern Cape economy
68 BRICS Cooperation: Science diplomacy best practice in action
72 What is a Sherpa?
78 "We must dare to invent the future"
82 Promoting investment to power Africa's single market
84 Africa's tourism sector is open en thriving
88 Five things you didn't know about Africa's most loved destinations
94 South Africa: Cradle of Humankind
100 Esther Mahlangu: South Africa's global cultural ambassador
104 The empire sings back: The deep history behind South African
soprano Pretty Yende's triumph
108 South Africa's hidden jazz history is being restored album by album
112 Celebrating 333 years of South Africa's oldest wine-producing farm
114 FYN Restaurant named best sustainable restaurant in the world
116 South African fashion travels out of this world at this year's Durban
July

Our story is of hundreds of millions of people
emerging out of generations of poverty.
BRICS is a partnership for accelerated
global growth, sustainable development
and inclusive, representative and fair
multilateralism.
We are hosting the XV BRICS Summit in
Johannesburg. This is the third time we host
BRICS on African soil.
As Chair, we align our actions with our
values and our vision.
I have invited leaders from Africa and the
global South to the BRICS Summit. Together,
we will forge a new path of global prosperity
and progress in the spirit of solidarity, equality,
justice, mutual respect and collective benefit.
I welcome you all to our beautiful country,
South Africa. I invite you to join us in shaping
I
t is an honour for South Africa to chair
BRICS in 2023. We find ourselves in
difficult times. The world is fractured
and uncertain.
Yet, the story of BRICS speaks to the
potential and hope of change. Through
BRICS, the countries of Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa join together four
continents, 42% of the world's population,
almost 30% of the world's territory, around
27% of global gross domestic product and
around 20% of global trade.
Our story is of people working together
to build a better future for all in a spirit of
solidarity, mutual respect and shared benefit.
Ours is a story of jobs and prosperity with
a third of the world's economic activity taking
place in our five countries.
a truly inclusive world of hope, shared
prosperity and well-being. I invite you to join
us as we work to expand horizons, advance
the empowerment of women, realise the full
potential of young people and build a world
free from fear, disease and want.
MESSAGE BY HE PRESIDENT CYRIL RAMAPHOSA
XV BRICS SUMMIT
JOHANNESBURG
SOUTH AFRICA
22 – 24 AUGUST 2023
BRICS and Africa:
Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive Multilateralism
 #BRICS   #BRICSza
www.brics2023.gov.za
Fellow South Africans, BRICS friends and global citizens,
I welcome you all to our
beautiful country, South
Africa. I invite you to join
us in shaping a truly
inclusive world of hope,
shared prosperity and
well-being.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
6

Limpopo, South Africa

Centre was launched in March last year. This
centre will enable BRICS countries to engage
in joint vaccine research, development
and co-production. It will contribute to the
equitable distribution of vaccines, strengthen
health systems and help our countries to
respond to future pandemics. We see the
BRICS Vaccine Research and Development
Centre as a valuable development in our
efforts to strengthen vaccine manufacturing
capacity in South Africa and on the African
continent more broadly. We will be calling on
our BRICS partners to support the principle
that vaccines destined for Africa should be
produced on the continent.
Last year, the BRICS ministers of
agriculture adopted the BRICS Strategy on
Food Security Cooperation. This is especially
important as concerns grow around food
security in the aftermath of the COVID-19
pandemic, in the wake of the conflict in
Ukraine and the increasing effects of climate
change.
The strategy aims to maintain sustainable
agriculture production, unhindered supply of
seeds, fertilisers and other agricultural inputs,
access to markets and stable functioning of
food value chains.
BRICS has ushered in a new era for
global development that is more inclusive,
sustainable and fair. Through the reform of
the multilateral system, including the United
Nations, and by refocussing the attention
and resources of the global community on
the sustainable development agenda, the
BRICS group can support a sustained and
equitable global recovery. BRICS leaders’
summits are valuable platforms for South
Africa to strengthen ties with its partner
countries in support of our own growth and
employment creation. The summit is our
opportunity to contribute to a better world, in
which all countries have a better chance to
flourish.
10 11
T
he value of South Africa’s
membership of BRICS has
grown substantially since we
joined this group of emerging
economies 13 years ago.
There is much to be gained
from our participation in BRICS and the
relationships we have established with other
member countries.
From the outset, BRICS countries
identified the strengthening of economic and
financial ties as one of the key pillars of its
cooperation. The countries have adopted the
Strategy for BRICS Economic Partnership
to increase access to each other’s markets,
promote mutual trade and investment and
create a business-friendly environment for
investors in all BRICS countries.
An important part of this strategy,
particularly for South Africa, is to diversify
trade so that more manufactured goods,
rather than raw commodities, are traded.
South African exports to other BRICS
countries have recorded strong growth since
2016 (7.1% per annum on average) reaching
US$17.6 billion in 2022. The principal
contributor to such growth was exports to
China over this period.
In 2022, about 21.2% of South Africa’s
total trade (exports and imports) with the
world at large took place with other BRICS
countries; 67.4% of which with China; 26.8%
with India; 4.1% with Brazil; and 1.6% with
BRICS partnership has great
value for South Africa
Russia. South African imports from other
BRICS member states expanded by 7.2%
per annum on average, over the period 2010
to 2022, to reach US$32.4 billion by 2022.
These countries are therefore significant
trading partners, and the value of this trade
is continuing to grow.
At a time when we are focussed on
improving the capacity and competitiveness
of our economy, these trade linkages will
prove vital to the growth of local industry.
There is therefore a direct relationship
between, on the one hand, our reforms in
energy, telecommunications and transport,
our investment in infrastructure and our
efforts to reduce red tape, and on the other
hand, the work underway to increase exports
to our BRICS partners.
These reforms are also important for
encouraging greater investment from BRICS
countries into our economy.
One area with great potential is tourism,
which has been badly affected by the
COVID-19 pandemic. Between 2021 and
2022, tourist arrivals from the BRICS
countries showed a marked increase: Brazil,
174.5%; Russia, 52.8%; India, 214.3%; and
China, 85.3%. These markets are expected
to make an important contribution to the
recovery of this sector.
It is significant that visitors from India and
China can now make use of our new eVisa
programme to make it easier and less costly
to visit our country.
As we mobilise financing from different
sources to fund our ambitious infrastructure
build programme, we expect the New
Development Bank (NDB) – also known as
the BRICS Bank – to play an important role
in providing financial and project preparation
support for infrastructure and sustainable
development projects.
The NDB was established in 2015 with a
AAA and AA+ credit rating to play a catalytic
role in providing financial support to emerging
markets and developing countries for
infrastructure and sustainable development.
South Africa is the beneficiary of 12
projects financed by the bank to the value of
US$5.4 billion. Five of these projects support
the energy sector, with three of those funding
renewable energy projects to the value of
R13 billion.
Alongside the engagements between
governments, the BRICS Business Council
and the BRICS Women’s Business Alliance
are building ties between our respective
business communities. They have been
looking at the development of sectors such
as agribusiness, aviation, financial services,
energy, manufacturing and infrastructure,
while also improving regulatory environments
and developing skills.
The collaboration among BRICS members
in the area of health and in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic in particular has placed
South Africa in a better position to respond
effectively to the current and future health
emergencies.
After several years of planning, the virtual
BRICS Vaccine Research and Development
By HE Cyril Ramaphosa
President of the Republic of South Africa
BRICS leaders' summits are valuable platforms
for South Africa to strengthen ties with its partner
countries in support of our own growth and
employment creation. The summit is our opportunity
to contribute to a better world, in which all countries
have a better chance to flourish.
BRICS PARTNERSHIP HAS GREAT VALUE FOR SOUTH AFRICA BRICS PARTNERSHIP HAS GREAT VALUE FOR SOUTH AFRICA
At the outset, BRICS countries identified the strengthening of economic and financial
ties as one of the key pillars of its cooperation.
An important part of this strategy, particularly for
South Africa, is to diversify trade so that more
manufactured goods, rather than raw
commodities, are traded.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
11

12 13
S
outh Africa has taken up
the Chair of the BRICS
grouping at a time of
momentous shifts in global
geopolitics. BRICS ‒ the
group of leading emerging
markets and developing countries, namely
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
‒ is eager to find solutions to the myriad of
challenges that face the developing world.
Together, we have forged a comprehensive
strategic partnership that seeks to unlock
funding to address immediate imperatives
such as building infrastructure, growing
regional value chains and localising
production.
The grouping has already made great
strides in opening doors to significantly
higher levels of trade and investment within
the global South.
For South Africa, the benefits of BRICS
membership are undeniable. Total South
African trade with BRICS increased from
R487 billion in 2017 to R702 billion in 2021.
The New Development Bank (NDB) has
to date approved 12 projects in South Africa
valued at around US$5.4 billion to improve
service delivery in critical areas.
Such access to finance is in keeping
with our National Interest of urgently
addressing the triple challenges of poverty,
underdevelopment and unemployment in our
country.
While the economic agenda is at the heart of
the BRICS partnership, the core members are
also committed to a transformative agenda that
seeks to realise a more equitable, balanced
and representative global governance system.
There is an urgent need to strengthen
multilateralism, including working towards
real reform of the United Nations (UN) and the
World Trade Organisation. While multilateral
cooperation in the post-World War II era
has been imperfect, it has averted direct
military conflict between major powers and
spurred nations to recognise and take joint
action to address international sustainable
development and human rights challenges.
Unfortunately, a steady erosion of trust and
competition between states has weakened
the ability of the international community to
work together to address shared challenges.
The obstacles we are facing include
growing unilateralism, geopolitical rivalries,
violations of international law and the
application of double standards. There has
also been a proliferation of alternate fora
outside of established multilateral processes
where decisions are taken by the few,
thereby disenfranchising the many.
Multilateralism ‒ the notion of collective
solutions ‒ must be at the heart of the
engagement between member states.
The UN must remain the centrepiece of
multilateralism and be modernised to make
it fit-for-purpose and more effective, forward-
looking, inclusive and representative of
current geopolitical relations.
The rising importance of BRICS, a
collective of the global South, is increasingly
evident. According to Megh Updates, one
of the world’s largest international online
platforms, BRICS has officially overtaken the
G7 in global gross domestic product (GDP)
and the trend is set to continue. The five
core members of BRICS contribute 31.5%
of global GDP, while the G7 contributes
30%. BRICS is expected to contribute over
50% of global GDP by 2030, and this may
happen even sooner with enlargement of the
grouping.
There has been growing interest by
members of the international community to
join BRICS, moving us closer to a multipolar
world order. In a vote of confidence that
BRICS has stayed true to its core values
of taking care of the interests of the global
South, at least 12 countries have written to
South Africa expressing an interest in joining
BRICS, and this year’s discussions will
hopefully take this matter forward.
The BRICS NDB has welcomed
Bangladesh, Egypt and the United Arab
Emirates as members, and Uruguay is
expected to deposit its instruments of
accession. The NDB is positioned as a
preferred global financing mechanism for
emerging markets and developing countries.
The NDB supports the development of
BRICS collaboration helps find
solutions for challenges facing
the global South
South Africa is committed to building a partnership between BRICS and Africa to unlock
mutually beneficial opportunities for increased trade, investment and infrastructure
development.
financial markets in member states and aims
to provide financing in both local and hard
currencies.
The NDB has an AA+ credit rating and
plays a role in providing financial support
to build infrastructure, ensure sustainable
development and enhance equity in power-
sharing.
The NDB has to date approved 80
investment projects in all member countries
for a total amount exceeding US$30 billion.
In South Africa, the NDB approved the
financing of a US$180-million project that
will add 1 000 MVA transmission transformer
capacity and 352.5 km of transmission lines. In
India, construction works financed by the NDB
have rebuilt or upgraded about 1,215 km of
road length, benefitting 917 villages. In Brazil,
NDB loans have financed double-tracking and
the remodelling of the Carajas Railway and
the expansion of the Ponta da Madeira Port
Terminal.
BRICS members are keen to see
the restructuring of the global financial
architecture and will further explore the
option of trading in our local currencies
and developing an alternative to the Swift
banking system.
South Africa consistently uses its
membership of key global multilateral bodies
to advance the African Union’s (AU) African
Agenda and key interests of the continent.
Thus, the theme we chose for chairing
BRICS this year is: BRICS and Africa:
Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive
Multilateralism.
It is our firm belief that there are immense
opportunities for BRICS to participate in
the African Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) by locating production and service
activities on the continent and partnering
with local companies and entrepreneurs. The
AfCFTA is an ambitious economic initiative of
the AU that seeks to address the challenge of
Africa’s low level of participation in the global
economy and world trade (which stands at
3%) relative to its population (around 17% of
the world population).
It is the flagship project of the AU’s Agenda
2063, which aims to build an integrated
African market of over one billion people
with a combined GDP of approximately
US$3.3 trillion. The AfCFTA is anchored
on the development integration approach
using market integration, infrastructure
development and industrial development
to boost intra-Africa trade and sustainable
economic growth. The AfCFTA is expected to
stimulate Africa’s industrial development and
employment. The successful implementation
of the AfCFTA is expected to lead to
the diversification of exports, increased
productive capacity, entrepreneurial
opportunities, technology transfer,
employment opportunities, broadening
economic inclusion and acceleration of
growth.
South Africa is committed to building a
partnership between BRICS and Africa to
unlock mutually beneficial opportunities
for increased trade, investment and
infrastructure development. It is for this
reason that we have invited the chairs of
the African regional economic communities
as well as the Chair of the AU to attend the
BRICS Summit.
There is a great deal that we can
accomplish as BRICS to the benefit of the
African continent and the global South. It
is time to capitalise on the immense trade
and investment opportunities that exist
in emerging markets and work towards
making our economies more self-reliant and
prosperous for the good of our people.
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
For South Africa, the benefits of BRICS membership
are undeniable. Total South African trade with BRICS
increased from R487 billion in 2017 to R702 billion
in 2021.The New Development Bank has to date
approved 12 projects in South Africa valued at
around US$5.4 billion to improve service delivery
in critical areas.
BRICS COLLABORATION HELPS FIND SOLUTIONS FOR CHALLENGES FACING THE GLOBAL SOUTH BRICS COLLABORATION HELPS FIND SOLUTIONS FOR CHALLENGES FACING THE GLOBAL SOUTH
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
12 13

The Department of International Relations and Cooperation
OR Tambo Building, Pretoria, South Africa

16 17
S
ince the election of Luiz
Inácio Lula da Silva as
President in October 2022,
and especially since his
inauguration in January
this year, Brazil has been
focussing all efforts on rebuilding our foreign
policy, by restoring values and principles
essential to our people and enshrined in
our Constitution. Multilateralism, respect
for international law, the promotion of
sustainable development and social justice
are once again guiding our diplomatic
action.
The world has been experiencing an
unprecedented series of overlapping
crises: from traditional threats to peace
and security to pandemics, climate
emergencies, social exclusion, food and
energy shortages, terrorism, cybersecurity,
disinformation and anti-democratic
extremism.
As President Lula stated recently, a
false dichotomy between growth and
environmental protection should be
overcome. It is the fight against hunger,
poverty and inequality that must return
to the centre of the international agenda,
ensuring adequate financing and
technology transfer.
The much-needed progress on these
areas must be achieved with renewed
and closely concerted commitment among
partners.
It is unusual to reinforce the obvious, but
our current situation requires it to be done:
dialogue is essential. There is no solution
isolated from politics and coordination.
With this in mind, we are strengthening
our engagement with friends from the
global South, with our neighbours in South
America, with the Southern Common
Market, Community of Latin American
and Caribbean States and Union of South
American Nations, as well as beyond,
towards meaningful connections with
Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
Indispensable for the building of a
truly multipolar world order – one that
should consider the voices and needs
of developing countries and emerging
markets – the BRICS mechanism is a
forum where Brazil will be substantively
engaged on every discussion.
The belief in the power of collective
action that is inclusive and equitable, one
that can shape a fairer and more balanced
international order, continues to be one
of our main purposes today. An enlarged
United Nations Security Council, one that
could overcome the restraints arising from
its representation deficit, will not only
better reflect the realities of a multipolar
world, but also enhance the council’s
legitimacy in dealing with modern conflicts
and contemporary challenges.
As part of BRICS, it is essential that we
discuss the current challenges, particularly
considering their more pronounced impact
on developing countries and emerging
markets, which are the hardest hit by crises
like the ones we face now. We cannot
accept that our collective lack of concerted
action may block pathways to development
and the full implementation of the 2030
Agenda. Our BRICS partners – together
and individually – have both the will and the
capacity to bridge differences and foster a
more collaborative environment.
BRICS countries have been playing an
indisputably important role on the global
stage.
Our cooperation has advanced in many
fields. This is most notably evidenced by the
numbers from the New Development Bank
(NDB). The bank has already approved
96 projects, totalling US$ 32.8 billion,
which will lead to the building or upgrading
of 17 000 km of roads, construction or
upgrading of 820 bridges, building of
35 000 housing units and generation of
2 800 MW of renewable and clean energy,
to name but a few achievements in this
short period.
The 2023 BRICS Summit:
A return to dialogue and
cooperation
As President Lula stated recently, a false dichotomy between growth and environmental
protection should be overcome. It is the fight against hunger, poverty and inequality that
must return to the centre of the international agenda, ensuring adequate financing and
technology transfer.
The interest expressed by many countries in
joining the NDB is testament to its success.
But let us not rest upon the achievements
we have reached; instead, we must focus
on forward-looking initiatives that bring
about benefits to our countries and to the
world.
Under the current leadership of President
Dilma Rousseff, the first woman to head
the institution, I am certain that the bank
will evolve even further as an extraordinary
tool for international development.
I congratulate the South African
Presidency for choosing the theme, BRICS
and Africa: Partnership for Accelerated
Mutual Growth, Sustainable Development
and Inclusive Multilateralism. It brings
us to discussing important topics, such
as developing a partnership towards an
equitable just transition and strengthening
post-pandemic socio-economic recovery
and the attainment of the 2030 Agenda on
Sustainable Development.
Among other topics we would like to
explore further with our partners, I would
mention the use of local currencies
in international trade and financial
transactions between BRICS countries
and our trading partners, which will unlock
opportunities by diversifying international
means of payment and reducing the
dependency on a single currency. We are
also engaged in the discussion of principles,
standards, criteria and procedures for
a possible BRICS expansion, as other
countries continue to present their interest
in becoming an integral part of this
mechanism. Brazil is fully committed to
the success of the next BRICS Summit.
President Lula is looking forward to the
first standalone meeting of leaders since
the outbreak of the pandemic. I wish to
stress that this meeting will be relevant
not only for our countries but also globally.
The world will be watching with interest the
debates and decisions, but most of all, the
actions taken.
As Nelson Mandela once stated,
"Ndiwelimilambo enamagama – I have
crossed famous rivers”. By that, he meant
that one has travelled and, in the process,
gained much experience. The world has
collectively crossed a turbulent river since
the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic,
and only now we begin to rebuild. President
Lula will come to the summit after crossing
many such rivers in his life and hopes to
share his experiences and expectations
with BRICS leaders during our work in
Johannesburg.
The belief in the power
of collective action
that is inclusive and
equitable, one that
can shape a fairer
and more balanced
international order,
continues to be one
of our main purposes
today.
By Mauro Vieira
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil
Brazil is fully committed
to the success of the
next BRICS Summit.
President Lula is
looking forward to the
first standalone meeting
of leaders since
the outbreak of the
pandemic.
THE 2023 BRICS SUMMIT: A RETURN TO DIALOGUE AND COOPERATION THE 2023 BRICS SUMMIT: A RETURN TO DIALOGUE AND COOPERATION
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
16 17

18 19
O
n the eve of the BRICS
Summit, I would like
to share with our dear
readers my thoughts
on the prospects for
cooperation among
the group of five countries in the current
geopolitical context.
Tectonic shifts are taking place in the
world today. The possibility of dominance
by one country or even a small group
of states is disappearing. The model of
international development built on the
exploitation of the resources of the world
majority to maintain the well-being of the
"golden billion" is hopelessly out of date.
It does not reflect the aspirations of all
humankind.
We are witnessing the emergence of
a more just multipolar world order. New
centres of economic growth and global
decision-making on important political
issues in Eurasia, Asia-Pacific, the Middle
East, Africa and Latin America are guided
primarily by their own interests and
assign paramount importance to national
sovereignty. And against this background,
they achieve impressive success in
various areas.
Attempts of the collective West
to reverse this trend with a view to
preserving its own hegemony have an
exactly opposite effect. The international
community is tired of the blackmail and
pressure from the Western elites and
their colonial and racist manners. That
is why, for example, not only Russia,
but also a number of other countries are
consistently reducing their dependence
on the US dollar, switching to alternative
payment systems and national currency
settlements. I recall the wise words of
Nelson Mandela: "When the water starts
boiling it is foolish to turn off the heat."
And it truly is.
Russia – a civilisation state, the
largest Eurasian and Euro-Pacific
power – continues to work towards
further democratisation of international
life, building an architecture of inter-
state relations that will be based on the
values of equal and indivisible security
and cultural and civilisational diversity,
and will provide equal opportunities for
development for all members of the
international community with no one left
behind. As President Vladimir Putin noted
in his Address to the Federal Assembly of
the Russian Federation on 21 February
2023: "In today's world there should be no
division into so-called civilised countries
and all the rest ... There is a need for
an honest partnership that rejects any
exclusivity, especially an aggressive
one." In our opinion, all this is in line with
the Ubuntu philosophy, which advocates
interconnectivity between nations and
people.
In this context, Russia has consistently
stood for strengthening the position of
the African continent in a multipolar world
order. We will further support our African
friends in their aspirations to play an
increasingly significant role in resolving
the key problems of our time.
This also applies in full to the process
of reforming the United Nations Security
Council, in which framework, in our
deep conviction, first and foremost,
the legitimate interests of developing
countries, including in Africa, must be
protected.
Multilateral diplomacy does not stand
aside from the global trends. Such a
grouping as BRICS is a symbol of true
multipolarity and an example of honest
inter-state communication. Within its
framework, states with different political
systems, distinctive value platforms and
independent foreign policies effectively
cooperate in various spheres. I think it
is no exaggeration to say that the five
BRICS countries are a kind of cooperation
"network" over the traditional North-South
and West-East lines.
Indeed, we have something to present
to our public. Through joint efforts,
BRICS has managed to create a culture
of dialogue based on the principles
of equality, respect for the choice of
one's own developmental path and
consideration of each other's interests.
This helps us find common ground on
and solutions even to the most complex
issues.
The place and significance of BRICS
today and its ability to influence the global
agenda are determined by objective
factors. The figures speak for themselves.
The population of the BRICS countries is
over 40% and the area of their territories
almost 30% of the world's land. According
to experts' forecasts, in 2023, the five
countries will account for about 31.5%
of global gross domestic product (at
purchasing power parity), while the
share of the G7 has fallen to 30% in this
indicator.
Today, the BRICS strategic partnership
is gaining momentum.
The "Big Five" offers the world creative,
forward-looking initiatives aimed at
achieving the Sustainable Development
Towards a
Just World Order
I am convinced that the XV Summit will be another milestone of BRICS strategic
partnership and will determine the key priorities for the coming years. We highly
appreciate the efforts of the South African Chairship, including the intensified work to
improve the entire constellation of BRICS mechanisms to deepen BRICS dialogue
with other countries.
Goals, ensuring food and energy security,
healthy growth of the global economy,
conflict resolution and combatting climate
change, including by means of a just
energy transition.
An extensive network of mechanisms
has been established to address these
challenges. The Strategy for Economic
Partnership 2025, which defines the
benchmarks of cooperation in the
mid-term, is being implemented. The
BRICS Energy Research Cooperation
Platform, launched at  Russia's initiative,
is operating successfully. The BRICS
Vaccine Research and Development
Centre, designed to help develop
effective responses to challenges to the
epidemic well-being of our countries, has
started its work. Initiatives on Denial of
Safe Haven to Corruption, on Trade and
Investment for Sustainable Development,
and on Enhancing Cooperation on Supply
Chains have been approved. The BRICS
Strategy on Food Security Cooperation
has been adopted.
The unconditional priorities include
strengthening the potential of the New
Development Bank and the BRICS
Contingent Reserve Arrangement,
improving payment mechanisms and
increasing the role of national currencies
in mutual settlements. It is planned to
focus on these issues at the BRICS
Summit in Johannesburg.
We do not aim to replace existing
multilateral mechanisms, much less to
become a new "collective hegemon". On
the contrary, the BRICS countries have
consistently advocated the creation of
conditions for the development of all
states, which excludes the bloc logic of
the Cold War and zero-sum geopolitical
games. BRICS seeks to offer inclusive
solutions based on a participatory
approach.
Building on that, we are consistently
working to develop BRICS interaction
with the countries representing the
world majority. In particular, one of the
priorities of the South African Chairship
is strengthening cooperation with African
countries. We fully share this approach.
We are ready to contribute to economic
growth on the continent and strengthen
security there, including its food and
energy components. A striking example is
the outcome of the Second Russia-Africa
Summit, held in St Petersburg from 27 to
28 July 2023.
In this context, it is natural that our
grouping has many like-minded countries
around the world. BRICS is seen as a
positive force that can strengthen the
solidarity of the global South and global
East and become one of the pillars of a
new, more just polycentric world order.
The five countries stand ready to
respond to this request. That is why
we launched the expansion process.
It is symbolic that it has gained such
momentum in the year of South Africa's
Chairship, a country that has joined
BRICS as a result of a consensus-based
political decision.
I am convinced that the XV Summit will
be another milestone of BRICS strategic
partnership and will determine the key
priorities for the coming years. We highly
appreciate the efforts of the South African
Chairship, including the intensified work
to improve the entire constellation of
BRICS mechanisms to deepen BRICS
dialogue with other countries.
By Sergey Lavrov
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation
TOWARDS A JUST WORLD ORDER TOWARDS A JUST WORLD ORDER
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
18 19

20 21
I
n many ways, the spirit of Ubuntu
shapes the activities and evolution
of the BRICS grouping. The
message of I am because of you
expresses the interdependence of
our globalised existence, which has
brought the BRICS nations together. It
also expresses the mutual respect and
sovereign equality that are the basis of
the grouping. And, in its own way, BRICS
is an assertion of democratisation by
emphasising that global decisions should
not be the prerogative of a few. This
has been the philosophy of the last two
decades and must continue to guide the
way forward.
Precisely because it is a vehicle
of change, BRICS has a special
responsibility towards Africa and the
global South. And this has only grown
further as developing nations have been
economically and socially ravaged by
the COVID-19 pandemic. We are also
witnessing deep concerns about energy,
food and fertiliser security in view of the
repercussions of an ongoing conflict. All
of this is coming on top of unsustainable
debt, trade disruptions and high interest
rates. Much of this is further complicated
by opaque connectivity, unviable projects
and unfair transactions. As a result, a
large part of the global South is under
significant stress. The consequences
of their travails could be far-reaching
if not addressed effectively.  In many
societies, endeavours towards reaching
the Sustainable Development Goals
have slowed down discernibly. Domains
like health and education are facing
challenges of funding and execution.
Another facet of concern is the prospect
of widening gender gaps, since women
and girls usually bear the brunt of
limited resources. Our collective effort
at promoting women-led development is
seriously impacted in the circumstances.
The world is also seeking to grow in a
greener and more sustainable manner.
This is particularly crucial for developing
societies who have so much growth still
ahead of them. The resource crunch that
they face today jeopardises ambitions
in this regard, already created by the
developed nations not living up to past
commitments on climate action. As a
grouping that has nurtured such strong
ties with the developing world, the BRICS
bloc cannot be impervious to these
worrisome trends.
What we can do in these circumstances
is to make both national and collective
efforts. Indeed, there are experiences and
achievements that are worth sharing even
among ourselves in that process. Those
that are transparent, consultative, viable
and capable of emulation are particularly
relevant. As India contemplates this
challenge, we believe that many
achievements of the last decade deserve
the focussed attention of BRICS members
as well as our international partners.
Some of them relate to long-standing
global challenges like climate action,
disaster resilience and counter-terrorism.
Others reflect an organic evolution,
which served us particularly well as we
combatted the COVID-19 pandemic and
ensured a robust economic recovery
thereafter. There are still others, which
have gained a particular salience in the
context of the economic implications
of ongoing conflicts. Together, these
constitute an interconnected template,
which is a powerful contribution to ongoing
development and growth debates.
When it comes to climate action, India
has not only sought to chart a more
sustainable path for itself but has done so
in a manner in which it has wider global
resonance. Our commitment to the growth
of renewable energy, the promotion of
energy efficiency and the deployment
of environment-friendly technologies is
evident on the ground. In many ways,
we have emerged as a climate action-
leader that has kept its commitments
made under the Paris Agreement. India
was also the initiator of collaborative
endeavours like the International Solar
Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster
Resilient Infrastructure. More recently,
we proposed the “One Sun One World
One Grid” as well as Infrastructure for
Resilient Island States. At the same
time, it is our deep belief that sustainable
growth requires a transformation in our
lifestyle. For that reason, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi has put forward the LiFE
(Lifestyle for Environment) initiative that
promotes practices, which are more in
harmony with nature. This draws upon an
Indian tradition and culture of reverence
for Mother Earth and for nature. We are
confident that other societies, drawing
on their own heritage, will find similar
motivation to join us in this effort. Another
significant development is the declaration
by the United Nations of 2023 as the
International Year of Millets. By promoting
the production and consumption of ancient
grains that are ingrained in the habits of
so many societies, we seek to address
both challenges of food security and of
BRICS has a special responsibility
towards Africa and the global South
We are also confident that the forthcoming summit will provide us with a valuable
opportunity to deliberate upon many other critical issues confronting the global South
in the spirit of equality, mutual respect and complete consensus, that is the hallmark
of BRICS.
more climate-friendly food production. It
is heartening to see both initiatives make
rapid progress.
In many ways, the progress in India
during the last few years itself serves as a
body of knowledge that can drive greater
international partnerships. Despite being
a low-income society, we have taken
major steps to ensure social welfare of
large segments of our population. The key
to this achievement is the emergence of
a digital public infrastructure that ensures
delivery of services in a credible and
effective manner. This is visible in the food
support extended to more than 800 million
Indians, direct financial payments made
to more than 400 million and ambitious
schemes of providing electricity, drinking
water and housing. It was expressed
as well in the digital platform, which
underpinned a massive vaccination effort.
As indeed, in the provision of benefits
to farmers or in the promotion of digital
financial transactions. The cumulative
impact of these endeavours has been
dramatic on the quality of governance.
The scale of services that is ensured on
a daily basis has increased by multiples.
If there are digital lessons from India’s
experience, a similar example is also now
being offered in the health domain. During
COVID, Indian-manufactured vaccines
were supplied to almost a 100 nations
and medicines to a 150. It witnessed India
establishing a reputation as a “pharmacy
of the world”. It was not just the scale of
the effort but also its competitive costs
and equally, the effectiveness of the
products. In parallel, there has been a
massive expansion in the availability
of generics and low-cost medicines
to ensure universal accessibility and
affordability. The concept of a “People’s
Pharmacy” that has gained traction can
offer insights to others with similar needs.
These are but some examples of ideas
and initiatives that India is seeking to bring
to BRICS and beyond. We believe deeply
in the inter-dependence of our globalised
economy. But, we are equally convinced
that this should serve for mutual benefit,
not for leveraging or unilateral gains. The
challenges of the world are today too
complicated to be addressed effectively
by national solutions alone. A larger
collective effort will be credible only if
groupings like BRICS sets an example.
In the past, India took the lead in areas
like strengthening and reforming the
multilateral system; counter-terrorism;
digital public goods; digital health;
startups; micro-, small and medium-sized
enterprises; agriculture, water and green
tourism. We have seen through actual
practice that the ambit of activities of
BRICS has grown through successive
chairships. Because the developing world
is characterised by young demographics,
we believe that their interests should be
a special focus for BRICS activities. On
its part, India is certainly prepared to
contribute its experiences in areas like
startups, innovation and digitisation.
As the South African Presidency takes
on the responsibility of further developing
the BRICS grouping, India extends fullest
support for its success. We believe
that the question of comprehensive
institutional development of BRICS should
be deliberated upon with an open mind
and a positive outlook. The decisions
we could take in this regard would have
far-reaching consequences. We are also
confident that the forthcoming summit will
provide us with a valuable opportunity to
deliberate upon many other critical issues
confronting the global South in the spirit
of equality, mutual respect and complete
consensus, that is the hallmark of BRICS.
By Subrahmanyam Jaishankar
Minister of External Affairs of India
BRICS HAS A SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS AFRICA AND THE GLOBAL SOUTH BRICS HAS A SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS AFRICA AND THE GLOBAL SOUTH
Despite being a low-
income society, we
have taken major steps
to ensure social welfare
of large segments of our
population. The key to
this achievement is the
emergence of a digital
public infrastructure
that ensures delivery of
services in a credible
and effective manner.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
20 21

Visit https://www.vodacombusiness.co.za/business/v-hub/
The HUB that helps
your business do more
V-Hub by Vodacom Business is your dedicated
digital portal for small business know-how.
Get direct access to insightful content, explore new ways to work
and serve customers, and learn from other small businesses. Let us
support you in making the right technology decisions that take
your business further, together.
3485_1Opportunity Mag_VHub_SME Print_DPS_FA_290722.indd   13485_1Opportunity Mag_VHub_SME Print_DPS_FA_290722.indd   1 2022/07/29   17:032022/07/29   17:03

T
he 2023 BRICS Academic
Forum brought together
leading scholars, researchers
and policymakers from
Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa to discuss
pressing global challenges and opportunities
for collaboration.
In his opening address, South Africa's
Minister of Higher Education, Science and
OUTCOMES OF THE 2023 BRICS ACADEMIC FORUM: FOSTERING COOPERATION AND ADVANCING RESEARCHOUTCOMES OF THE 2023 BRICS ACADEMIC FORUM: FOSTERING COOPERATION AND ADVANCING RESEARCH
Innovation, Dr Blade Nzimande, highlighted,
"The 15th BRICS Academic Forum provides
us with another opportunity to strengthen our
relations and reaffirm our values in an ever
unfortunately polarised global order."
In line with South Africa's 2023 theme,
BRICS and Africa: Partnership for
Mutually Accelerated Growth, Sustainable
Development and Inclusive Multilateralism,
the Consul General of India in Cape Town,
Mr PK Ashok Babu, noted that, "Today, the
BRICS Academic Forum has become an
important part of dialogue diplomacy wherein
experts have the freedom to interact frankly
and recommend pragmatic solutions to our
concerns." Indeed, successful partnership
necessitates dialogue and consensus to
respond to these needs and demands of the
larger international community, particularly
regarding growth, sustainable development
cooperation will result in a more skilled and
adaptable workforce capable of meeting the
challenges of the ever-evolving global job
market.
Cross-cultural understanding and soft
diplomacy were highlighted as essential
ingredients for successful academic
cooperation. By promoting mutual
understanding, BRICS nations can foster an
environment of trust and respect, reducing
the likelihood of misunderstanding and
conflict. The intellectual exchange of ideas,
cultures and traditions creates a strong
foundation for productive international
relations, encouraging peaceful coexistence
and diplomatic partnerships.
Some of the key focal points of the forum
were sustainable development and climate
change. As the world faces environmental
crises, BRICS nations recognise the
urgency of adopting eco-friendly practices
and policies. These nations can develop
innovative solutions to combat climate change
and its associated impacts by pooling their
resources, expertise and research findings.
Moreover, continued academic cooperation
allows for the exchange of best practices
in sustainable development, enabling each
member country to learn from the successes
and challenges their counterparts face.
Continued research cooperation among
BRICS nations is paramount in driving
sustainable development and global
progress in the 21st century.
The 2023 BRICS Academic Forum’s
outcomes underscore the necessity for
collaborative efforts to address pressing
global challenges and capitalise on emerging
opportunities.
The 15th BRICS Academic Forum’s
recommendations, formulated by the BRICS
Think Tank Council, offer guidance for the
BRICS leaders under the South African
Chairship in 2023. The recommendations aim
to promote partnerships for mutual growth,
sustainable development and inclusive
multilateralism, focussing on benefitting all
citizens, especially women and youth, to
create a world free from poverty, inequalities
and disease. Specifically, the nine policy
imperatives were proposed as follows:
1. Strengthening Multilateralism and
Reforming Global Governance
Institutions:  BRICS should work
towards transforming the international
order based on international law,
respecting the sovereignty of
independent countries and promoting
the multilateral trading system.
2. Strengthening Peace and Security
Processes: BRICS should address
security challenges through joint
efforts to respond to traditional and
non-traditional threats, focussing on
counterterrorism, maritime security
and development.
3. Strengthening Post-Pandemic
Socio-Economic Recovery and the
2030 Agenda: BRICS economies
have been affected differently by
COVID-19, therefore, cooperation
in health, entrepreneurship and
scientific and technical innovation is
crucial for sustainable and inclusive
development.
4. Climate Challenges for BRICS
Countries: BRICS should support
the implementation of the Paris
Agreement, promote agriculture-
climate adaptation and mitigation
strategies and collaborate on water
resource management to combat
climate change.
5. Developing a Partnership towards
an Equitable Just Transition and
the African Agenda on Science,
Technology and Innovation (STI):
BRICS countries must support
technological and policy collaboration
in clean energy projects, critical
minerals and green technology,
ensuring the interests of vulnerable
groups are addressed.
6. Transforming Education, Innovation
and Skills Development for the Future:
Knowledge exchanges, monitoring
and evaluation should be improved,
and STI cooperation should be
strengthened, primarily through the
BRICS Partnership for New Industrial
Revolution.
7. Unlocking Opportunities through
the African Continental Free Trade
Agreement: BRICS should prioritise
infrastructure investment and
development, promote technology
transfer and knowledge exchange and
facilitate engagement with regional
trade groupings.
8. New Development Bank (NDB)
and BRICS Financing: The NDB's
Cross-cultural
understanding and
soft diplomacy were
highlighted as essential
ingredients for
successful academic
cooperation.
Outcomes of the 2023
BRICS Academic Forum:
Fostering cooperation and advancing research
Prof. Sarah Mosoetsa
Interim Chairperson of the BRICS Think Tank Council
The 2023 BRICS Academic Forum’s outcomes underscore the necessity for
collaborative efforts to address pressing global challenges and capitalise on
emerging opportunities.
and inclusion of the global South in the world
system.
Delegates engaged with five priorities
under South Africa's 2023 BRICS theme
during the forum.
In resonance with the priorities, Developing
a Partnership towards an Equitable Just
Energy Transition, and Transforming
Education and Skills Development for the
Future, Mr Aleksei Malenko, Consul General
of Russia in Cape Town, highlighted that
"strengthening the capacity of the academic
society is one of the most important aspects
of the BRICS activities."
Touching on the priority of Unlocking
Opportunities through the African Continental
Free Trade Agreement, Minister Nzimande
emphasised that BRICS needed to pay
"particular attention to developing countries
and their needs" if they were to meet their
"commitment to developing a more inclusive,
equitable and just global system." He urged
BRICS researchers to scrutinise "the illicit
flow of finances and funds from the African
continent to developed countries."
 Concerning the fourth priority,
Strengthening Post-Pandemic Socio-
Economic Recovery and the Attainment
of the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable
Development, the progress that BRICS had
already made in this regard was emphasised
by Consul General Malenko: "Recently, the
combined GDP of the BRICS countries, for
the first time, exceeded that of the G7."
Alluding to the fifth priority, Strengthening
Multilateralism, including Working Towards
Real Reform of Global Governance
Institutions and Strengthening the
Meaningful Participation of Women in Peace
Processes, Dr Nzimande emphasised "the
necessity to bring about peace in the world
as a precondition for equitable economic
development." He noted that as the African
Union had resolved to "silence the guns"
on the African continent, there should also
be a similar global commitment to focus
"on the achievement of human goals, of
egalitarianism and mutually beneficial
development."
Policy proposals for sustainable
development
Education and skills development emerged
as critical areas of focus during the forum.
BRICS countries recognise that investing in
human capital is essential for achieving the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
By collaborating on educational initiatives
and sharing knowledge, these nations can
bridge the gap between educational systems
and promote cross-cultural learning. This
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
24 25

role in global development finance
should be expanded, with a focus
on renewable energy projects and
infrastructure development. BRICS
must also advocate for climate finance
architecture reassessment and
support trade for mutual benefit.
9. People-to-People Exchanges: BRICS
should strengthen people-to-people
ties through cultural exchanges,
tourism, sports and other programmes
to promote mutual understanding and
trust.
These policy recommendations aim
to enhance cooperation, sustainable
development and inclusiveness among the
BRICS nations and contribute to a safe and
equal world free from poverty, inequalities
and disease.

Strengthening research cooperation
During the 2023 BRICS Academic Forum,
the BRICS countries took a significant
step towards fostering collaboration and
knowledge exchange. As part of the proposal
to establish a BRICS Virtual Academy,
the BRICS Think Tank Council identified
urgent policy research areas that will
drive sustainable development and further
cooperation among the BRICS nations:
• BRICS Currencies: Trade among
BRICS nations and the global South
has historically relied on currency
exchanges and swap mechanisms
that may not always be mutually
beneficial. Given BRICS' significant
share of the global population and
gross domestic product, exploring the
potential use of national currencies
in trade and investment within the
bloc and with regional partners is
vital. Comprehensive research,
including evidence-gathering and cost-
benefit analyses, will be undertaken
by scholars and researchers from
BRICS nations to develop alternative
currencies and enhance economic
stability and cooperation.
• Expansion of BRICS: The growing
interest from countries across
continents to join BRICS calls for
careful research and examination of
the implications of expansion. Scholars
and researchers will study the guiding
OUTCOMES OF THE 2023 BRICS ACADEMIC FORUM: FOSTERING COOPERATION AND ADVANCING RESEARCH
principles and modalities for expanding
BRICS while preserving its original
goals and intentions. Additionally,
exploring collaboration frameworks
with potential partner countries will
strengthen BRICS' global position and
foster collective progress.
• New Technologies: Critical and
emerging technologies, such as
Artificial Intelligence and language-
processing advancements, require
in-depth research by BRICS scholars.
Understanding the impact of these
technologies on various aspects
of human life, including the digital
economy and security, will foster better
digital infrastructure development.
Analysis of knowledge-sharing and
technology transfer dynamics will help
bridge the digital divide and elevate
digital governance. The establishment
of a BRICS Platform on Digital Public
Goods, as per the Delhi Declaration of
2021, will drive digital innovation, and a
repository for Open-Source Technology
Applications under the BRICS umbrella
will support the achievement of the
SDGs.
• BRICS Declarations: Effective
implementation of BRICS declarations
necessitates the establishment of a
comprehensive database of archival
documents. BRICS think tanks will
compile relevant data to produce
monitoring reports on progress,
achievements and challenges since
the bloc's inception. This systematic
approach will promote transparency
and accountability, reinforcing BRICS'
commitment to its objectives.
• SDGs: Assessing BRICS' progress in
achieving the SDGs (Agenda 2030)
is crucial to expedite their attainment.
Through comprehensive reviews,
BRICS scholars and researchers can
identify areas that require innovative
and cooperative measures to drive
sustainable development and improve
the well-being of their nations and the
global community.
The establishment of the BRICS Virtual
Academy marks a significant milestone in
strengthening academic cooperation among
BRICS nations.
The prioritisation of urgent policy research
initiatives by the BRICS Think Tank Council
demonstrates its commitment to promoting
sustainable development and finding
innovative solutions to global challenges.
As researchers and scholars collaborate
and share knowledge and expertise, the
BRICS bloc can harness its collective
potential to drive positive change and shape
a more prosperous and interconnected
future for all.
In conclusion, the outcomes of the 2023
BRICS Academic Forum reinforce the critical
role of continued academic cooperation
among BRICS nations in advancing
sustainable development and global
progress.
By addressing key themes such as
sustainable development, technology,
education, cross-cultural understanding
and research collaboration, these countries
can collectively create positive impacts on a
global scale. It is imperative that they sustain
and strengthen their collaborative efforts
to leverage their collective potential and
overcome the complexities of the modern
world.
BRICS countries have demonstrated
remarkable progress in various technological
domains, from space exploration to Artificial
Intelligence.
By collaborating on research and
development projects, these nations can
accelerate technological advancements,
benefitting not only their own economies
but also contributing to global technological
progress.
Jointly addressing the ethical and
regulatory implications of emerging
technologies will also foster a shared sense
of responsibility and cooperation in shaping
the digital future.
As the global landscape continues to
evolve, nurturing academic ties among
BRICS nations will remain essential for
building a more sustainable, prosperous and
interconnected future for all.
The establishment of the BRICS Virtual Academy marks
a significant milestone in strengthening academic
cooperation among BRICS nations.
The prioritisation of urgent policy research
initiatives by the BRICS Think Tank Council
demonstrates its commitment to promoting
sustainable development and finding innovative
solutions to global challenges.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
26

T
he New Development Bank
(NDB) was created in 2014,
during the BRICS Summit
in Fortaleza, when I was the
President of Brazil. Seeing
that its birth resulted from the
collective will of Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa, the NDB is often referred to
as the “BRICS Bank”.
With the important entry of other countries,
this acronym has now become a name and it
no longer stands for the five founders only, but
for all the countries of the global South that
belong now, and that will in the future belong
to the bank.
However, besides its name, the bank is
also new for its characteristics; possessing
a profile that makes it stand out among
multilateral development banks. The NDB
focusses primarily on developing countries
and emerging economies. Its mission is
to mobilise resources for investments in
logistical, social, environmental and digital
infrastructure, with a view to the sustainable
development of its member countries.
In short, the NDB is a bank built by and for
developing countries, where the voices of all
member countries are equally heard.
Today, the bank faces the new challenges
that come from a changing world. The drive
towards globalisation that has prevailed since
THE NEW DEVELOPMENT BANK: BUILT BY AND FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIESTHE NEW DEVELOPMENT BANK: BUILT BY AND FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
World War II, with the internationalisation of
trade and financial and information flows,
has been changing since the 2008/09
crisis. With the multiplication of sanctions,
geopolitical conflicts have introduced
uncertainty and instability by leaving financial
assets unprotected. They also led to the
fragmentation of global supply chains, already
weakened by COVID-19.
The world’s economy has been facing the
effects of high inflation and monetary policies
that lead to rising interest rates, thus giving
rise to bank failures, excessive leverage
and increasing the risk of recession in both
developed and developing countries. The end
of quantitative easing and the adoption of
quantitative tightening are generating shock
waves of instability that hit the entire world
economy.
As a former president of a developing
country, I know how important multilateral
banks are, and above all, I know the immense
challenge of obtaining financing on the
scale required to meet the economic, social,
logistical and environmental challenges of
these countries.
Becoming president of the NDB is, without
a doubt, an excellent opportunity to do
more for developing countries, for emerging
economies, and, therefore, for Brazil. We
support the national strategies of the bank’s
member countries to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by financing renewable energy,
green and resilient infrastructure, aiming at
low-carbon growth. The bank is committed
to helping member countries achieve the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) –
foremost among which are the eradication
of poverty and of hunger – as well as the
nationally determined contributions made
under the Paris Agreement by each signatory
country.
The efforts of the NDB in this area are
extremely relevant in view of the shortfall of
over US$4 trillion that exists today to achieve
the SDGs globally, creating what the United
Nations Secretary-General has called “a
funding black hole”.
Moreover, because of its origin and
characteristics, the NDB is in a unique position
to support the infrastructure investments
needed to fight poverty and promote job
creation.
Looking to the immediate future, the
priorities for the bank are clear.
First, the NDB needs to expand its
outreach, strengthening its role as a platform
for cooperation. We will do this by expanding
our network of partnerships, always placing
great emphasis on the relevance of the
development projects we finance. To this end,
we are seeking to work ever more closely and
directly with our members to better identify
their most significant needs and focus our
support on their most critical and strategic
projects.
In this same sense, the NDB intends to
increase its participation in co-financing
operations with other multilateral financial
institutions, national development banks and
the private sector. By strengthening these
partnerships, we will be able to multiply the
impact of our bank’s resources, amplifying the
reach of our actions in favour of our member
countries.
In 2021, the NDB began its membership
expansion, in line with the guidance of the
bank’s governors and Board of Directors, and
welcomed three new members: Bangladesh,
United Arab Emirates and Egypt. These
countries, with their geographic, economic
and developmental differences, represent the
diversity of the bank’s membership.
Our approach to expanding the number
of countries will be to seek greater diversity,
both in terms of geography and stage of
development. The countries that will be
joining us will bring resources to the bank,
supporting the diversification of its portfolio
and increasing its ability to mobilise funds. The
expansion of the bank’s membership will serve
to strengthen our capital base, enhancing
support for new investments. Furthermore,
they will enrich the NDB’s collection of social
and economic development experiences and
enhance the bank’s role as a platform for
amplifying collaboration between developing
countries and emerging economies.
A second priority for the NDB will be to
raise funds in diverse world markets, and in
different currencies – such as the renminbi,
dollar and euro – bringing in resources from
wherever they are available. At the same
time, we will seek to fund a greater share
of our projects in local currencies, with the
dual objective of strengthening the member
countries’ domestic markets and protecting
our borrowers from the risks of currency
fluctuations.
Because their currencies are not fully
convertible within the current financial
architecture, the economies of the global
South often suffer from the negative impacts
of sudden fluctuations in their exchange rates.
In addition, many infrastructure projects
crucial for sustainable development generate
their revenues in local currency, and we
intend to offer more compatible alternatives
for their financing.
It is worth noting that the private sector
will be the main beneficiary of the lower
costs generated by the ability to offer project-
finance loans in local currencies.
Currently, local-currency financing
represents approximately 22% of the
bank’s portfolio, largely driven by renminbi-
denominated loans. For the 2022 – 2026
strategic cycle, our goal is that 30% of the
bank’s project financing volume will be
denominated in the national currencies of our
members.
A third priority for the bank will be to promote
social inclusion. The NDB needs to support
projects that help reduce inequalities and that
contribute to improving the living standards of
the large communities of poor and excluded
people that still exist in the countries of the
global South.
The impacts of projects in terms of promoting
economic growth, generating employment
and increasing household income are
necessarily part of the criteria that the bank
has been adopting in offering financial support
that is truly relevant for member countries.
When considering the social impact of the
financing it provides, however, the NDB must
aim beyond income growth to productive
inclusion and access to public services.
The experience of many member countries
shows that social inclusion also depends on
the population’s access to health, education,
sanitation, mobility and housing.
All these public goods and the services
associated with them depend on investments
in specific infrastructures geared towards
their availability for the general population,
and the bank intends to play an increasing
role in supporting such investments.
The strategic objective of the NDB is to
become the leading development bank for
emerging markets and developing countries.
The NDB is, in essence, a cooperative
of countries that share an inarguable
commitment to the climate and environmental
agenda, the social-inclusion and inequality-
reduction agendas and the economic
modernisation agenda of the countries of the
global South.
By diversifying its sources of funding,
broadening its partnership network and
expanding its membership base, the NDB
aims to extend its global reach as a platform
that practises true multilateralism, promoting
broader cooperation among developing
countries.
THE NEW DEVELOPMENT BANK
Built by and for developing countries
By Dilma Rousseff
President of the New Development Bank
The countries that will be joining us will bring resources to the bank, supporting the
diversification of its portfolio and increasing its ability to mobilise funds. The expansion
of the bank's membership will serve to strengthen our capital base, enhancing
support for new investments.
The NDB is a bank built by and for developing countries, where the voices of all
member countries are equally heard.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
28 29

MTN Group is a pan-African mobile operator driven
to enable the benefits of a modern connected life for
everyone in our 19 markets. Guided by our strategic
intent – which is ‘Leading digital solutions for Africa’s
progress’ – we provide our 290 million subscribers with
a diverse range of voice, data, fintech, digital, enterprise,
wholesale,  and API services.
Established in South Africa at the dawn of democracy
in 1994, MTN has grown by investing in sophisticated
communication infrastructure, developing new
technologies, and by harnessing the talent of our diverse
people to offer services to communities across Africa
and  in the Middle East.
We aim to be the trusted partner for progress with our
nation state hosts in the socioeconomic development
of their countries as well  as to contribute to the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development  Goals and Agenda
2063: The Africa We Want. We continue to expand our
network coverage; lower the cost to communicate;
reduce our  GHG emissions; and advance the
representation of women across  our business.
In 2022, we contributed approximately R149 billion
to society,  as measured by economic value added.
Of this, our total tax contribution was R51.5 billion.
As a company rooted in Africa,  we are connected
with all things that give Africans dignity, hope
and opportunity. Expanding digital and financial
inclusion are a particular focus. In 2022, of our
289 million subscribers, 137 million were active
data users and 69 million were active users of
MTN Mobile Money. Some 88% of the population
in our markets fell within our broadband
coverage and we are targeting 95% by 2025.
In 2022, we contributed approximately R149
billion to society,  as measured by economic
value added. Of this, our total tax contribution
was R51.5 billion. As a company rooted in
Africa,  we are connected with all things that
give Africans dignity, hope and opportunity.
Expanding digital and financial inclusion are
a particular focus. In 2022, of our 289 million
subscribers, 137 million were active data users
and 69 million were active users of MTN Mobile
Money. Some 88% of the population in our
markets fell within our broadband coverage
and we are targeting 95% by 2025.
Women make up 40% of our workforce, and we
aim for 50% by 2030.  To contribute to the fight
against climate change, we are committed  to
a 50% reduction in emissions by 2030 and
Net Zero by 2040.
MTN’s journey is rooted in the soul of Africa.
It is a journey of tenacity, resilience, dedication,
and the pursuit of excellence. We are committed
to contributing to the ‘Africa We Want’ and
are inspired by the transformative power of
connections and the potential they hold for
mutual and sustainable growth, development,
and understanding. We actively seek
We are committed
to contributing to
the ‘Africa We Want’ ...
opportunities to leverage our connections to
address the challenges of poverty, inequality,
and unemployment. Through increased
collaborations in trade, investment, tourism,
skills for the future, and technology transfers,
we envision a future of sustainable growth and
development for Africa and beyond.
We are excited about the opportunities of the
African Continental Free Trade Area and the
African Digital Transformation Strategy and
remain committed to strengthening the post-
pandemic recovery. We are at the forefront of
sustainable solutions, investing in renewable
energy and innovative technologies that
reduce our environmental footprint
.
Since over 60% of Africa’s population is under
35 years of age, we are determined to empower
young people by equipping them with the skills
and knowledge they need to thrive in the digital
age, and beyond. MTN is a partner in progress,
a catalyst for change, and a believer in  the
power of connection. We are excited about the
opportunities ahead. Together, we can create a
better Africa and world, with a more connected
future for all.
Doing for tomorrow,
today.
Leading
digital
solutions
for Africa’s
progress
African Union Headquarters, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

BRICS Business Council and other working
groups to mainstream youth interests and
perspectives across all BRICS activities and
cooperation.
It will also provide a feedback loop to
government with the youth council making
recommendations to governments on the
impact and direction of BRICS priorities and
programmes and how they affect our youth.
This is important to ensure that BRICS
membership delivers benefits across the
board, including to the youth of BRICS
countries and the global South.
As a collective, we look forward to working
with the youth of BRICS towards addressing
our national and global challenges and
exploring opportunities for mutual benefit for
all. We look forward to working together with
you to place BRICS at the forefront of shaping
a new people-centred global society in a
multipolar world.
The BRICS partnership depends on the support and leadership of our
youth, our future. As a country, South Africa is acutely aware of how
youth activism has shaped, and continues to shape,
international relations.
O
ur unique identity and
strength as BRICS are
anchored in our solidarity
as people of the South.
BRICS brings people
together across four
continents and diverse histories, cultures,
religions and identities to forge new
friendships and deepen relations and mutual
understanding between BRICS peoples in the
spirit of openness, inclusiveness, diversity,
solidarity and mutual respect.
Some of the global narratives about BRICS
constantly aim to highlight our differences
as something negative. The uniqueness of
BRICS is precisely the diversity and richness,
which weld us together as a powerful global
force. It brings us together to work together in
cooperation not only for our own benefit but
for the global community.
Our BRICS partnership has deep roots in
the formal government cooperation tracks
across the three pillars of cooperation: political
and security; financial and economic; as well
as social/people-to-people cooperation.
The partnership is more than government-
to-government relations. It is inclusive of
women, youth, civil societies, media, ruling
parties, parliaments, law societies, cultural
organisations, sports federations, arts, theatre
and film, to name but a few.
We live in a very fractured world and
therefore new solutions are desperately
needed for the challenges confronting
humanity today.
The global pandemic has erased almost
all the gains we have made towards the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The
world is increasingly divided and the return
to Cold War mentalities and the contestation
of so-called great powers have worsened the
situation for the global South.
The key developmental challenges of
poverty, underdevelopment and inequality
are increasing, but are being relegated to
BRICS AT 15: YOUTH AS DRIVERS OF THE BRICS AGENDA
the margins by those who have the means to
make a difference.
BRICS as a powerful voice of the global
South must leverage its combined resources,
influence and leadership, in partnership
with other like-minded emerging market and
developing countries, to provide the global
leadership that is lacking in the world today.
This is what is expected of BRICS.
This is the motivation for South Africa's
theme as Chair of BRICS in 2023: BRICS and
Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated
Growth, Sustainable Development and
Inclusive Multilateralism.
Our theme emphasises the value of
BRICS as a partnership of leading emerging
markets and developing countries generating
momentum towards global growth,
sustainable development and inclusion of the
global South in the world system.
Governments cannot deliver on this alone.
It requires a whole-of-community and whole-
of-society approach. The future of our BRICS
partnership depends on cooperation between
our countries being driven at a people-to-
people level.
The BRICS partnership depends on the
support and leadership of our youth, our
future. As a country, South Africa is acutely
aware of how youth activism has shaped, and
continues to shape, international relations.
It was the youth of South Africa who exposed
the brutality of the apartheid regime and who
was a catalyst for the international revulsion
against the South African Government,
mobilising support for the liberation struggle
against apartheid.
International solidarity with the struggle
of South African youth elevated the
consciousness of young South Africans to
global challenges and the power of youth
engagement in finding solutions.
In 2011, we witnessed young people
demanding more accountability from
governments on matters affecting them, in
what later became known as the Arab Spring.
With the rise of social media, young people
have proven their ability to amplify their
activism on issues such as peace and security,
climate change, sustainable development and
human rights beyond their borders.
Youth are now critical players in international
fora and global affairs in general. One of the
foundational values of BRICS is the need to
restructure the global political, economic and
financial architecture to be more equitable,
balanced, inclusive and representative.
Our vision of BRICS is of a partnership of
emerging markets and developing countries
providing global leadership and serving as the
catalyst for sustained and mutually beneficial
global growth and sustainable development.
Our vision is for BRICS cooperation to
respond to the needs and demands of the
larger international community, particularly
growth, sustainable development and
inclusion of the global South in the world
system.
Our vision of BRICS is also inclusive and
representative. Our vision cannot be achieved by governments alone and demands the
meaningful participation of women and youth.
Our BRICS partnership recognises that
full and effective participation of youth in
the life of society and in decision-making is
fundamental for inclusive and sustainable
development.
It is one thing to talk about inclusion of
the youth to ensure representation of their
interest and to show solidarity with young
people across the world. Young people also
need resources, networks and platforms
to play a meaningful and lasting role in the
foreign policy space.
BRICS has therefore created a number
of platforms to enhance meaningful youth
participation and leadership, including the
BRICS Youth Summit, but also the BRICS
Young Scientists Forum; BRICS Civil Forum;
BRICS Youth Parliamentarians Forum;
BRICS Youth Energy Forum; and the BRICS
Games. These platforms have created a
cohort of young BRICS policymakers and
influencers who are key players in the new
era of development.
Young people also need to be present in
decision-making platforms and I commend
the leadership role played by South Africa's
National Youth Development Agency in this
area with their proposal for the establishment
of a BRICS Youth Council.
A youth council will be a formalised structure
for BRICS youth engagement to coordinate
BRICS youth participation and representation
across all three pillars of our cooperation.
It will create a platform for dialogue and
capacity-building for youth empowerment
and an entry point for engagement with other
BRICS structures, including the Sherpas,
governments, the New Development Bank,
BRICS Civil Society, BRICS Think Tank
Council, BRICS Women Business Alliance,
BRICS at 15: Youth as drivers
of the BRICS Agenda
The uniqueness of BRICS is precisely the diversity and richness, which weld
us together as a powerful global force. It brings us together to work together in
cooperation not only for our own benefit but for the global community.
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS and South Africa's BRICS Sherpa
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
The partnership is more
than government-to-
government relations. It
is inclusive of women,
youth, civil societies,
media, ruling parties,
parliaments, law
societies, cultural
organisations, sports
federations, arts, theatre
and film, to name
but a few.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
32 33

Of all these priority areas,
the most urgent for
South Africa are trade
and investment, as well
as the improvement of
fertiliser availability.
I
n May 2023, the business councils of
the BRICS grouping gathered virtually to
discuss a range of priorities for the year,
in preparation for the XV BRICS Summit
in August 2023.
The BRICS Business Council (BBC)
works collaboratively with the political heads
and primarily focusses on commercial
opportunities within BRICS.
Having assumed the BRICS Chairship
this year, South Africa led the meeting and
proposed the areas of focus for the year
ahead. Within the Agribusiness Working
Group, there are five priority areas, namely:
• Best practices on agriculture
sustainable development among
BRICS countries: All the BRICS
countries are major agricultural
countries and agricultural production
faces significant challenges in tackling
climate change. This BBC workstream
is crucial and will build on the work
already started by the China chapter
in 2022.
• Improve fertiliser availability to use
among BRICS countries and the
broader African continent: This theme
will explore ways of boosting fertiliser
production and trade among BRICS
countries.
• Agricultural finance: The drive
towards smart climate agriculture and
the adoption of new farming methods,
such as the European Union's Green
Deal, requires new ways of production
and investments in global agriculture.
This requires innovative ways of
financing. Given that some BRICS
members are more advanced in
their agricultural sectors than others,
information-sharing about agricultural
WHAT HAS BRICS DONE THUS FAR TO SERVE THE AGRIBUSINESS AND AGRICULTURE COMMUNITIES?WHAT HAS BRICS DONE THUS FAR TO SERVE THE AGRIBUSINESS AND AGRICULTURE COMMUNITIES?
finance and domestic experiences
is critical. This could be achieved
through virtual seminars and reports.
• Trade and investment: Although
the BRICS countries are primarily
agricultural powerhouses, there is still
room to improve trade, with a specific
focus on market-access issues.
• Academic interactions for private-
sector benefit: The working group will
explore the academic programmes
to align research and collaboration
between academic and private sector
role-players.
These focal points were adopted by the
global BBC chapters and will inform the main
programme of work of the agriculture and
agribusiness sectors.
The expected outcome or model of delivery
in each of the said priorities will include
business facilitation, seminars and research
papers.
Importantly, BRICS is a political grouping
and a free trade agreement; therefore, there
will remain some limitations in facilitating
trade, although the group offers the
opportunity to highlight the barriers that each
country experiences regarding trade. The
South African agricultural role-players will be
represented in these discussions.
Of all these priority areas, the most urgent
for South Africa are trade and investment,
as well as the improvement of fertiliser
availability.
On trade, the main interest for South Africa
is advancing agricultural exports, specifically
to China and India. These countries have
relatively solid economic growth prospects
and large populations (and therefore markets).
Brazil tends to be a competitor with South
Africa in major agricultural commodities,
while Russia is an important market for South
African fruit and in turn, a major supplier of
wheat. Still, since the Russia-Ukraine conflict,
advancing commerce with the country is
generally risky.
As things stand, BRICS countries account
for a relatively small share of South Africa's
agricultural exports – an average of 8% over
the past 10 years in total agricultural exports
of US$9,9 billion.
These calculations are based on data from
Trade Map. China is the leading market,
accounting for an average of 5% of South
Africa's agricultural exports worldwide. The
top products were wool, citrus, beef, nuts and
grapes.
The second-largest market within BRICS
was Russia, accounting for an average of
2%, with citrus, apples, pears, grapes and
wine as some of the top products while India
and Brazil were negligible importers of South
African agricultural products.
While the BRIC (with South Africa excluded
in this calculation) countries imported an
average of US$764 million of agricultural
products from South Africa, a small share in
the nearly US$10 billion South Africa exported
over the past decade annually, the grouping
imported an average of US$196 billion worth
of agricultural products from the world market.
This data excludes South Africa to provide
a view of the size of the agricultural market
that South Africa is part of within BRIC(S).
The US$764 million imported by BRIC from
South Africa over the past 10 years makes
South Africa a small player in the agricultural
trade of this grouping. China is the largest
importer, accounting for 67% of the total BRIC
agriculture import of US$196 billion, followed
by Russia (16%), India (12%) and Brazil (5%).
These realities imply that within the
agribusiness stream of the BBC and the
broader political grouping, the South African
representatives should continue to advocate
for lowering import tariffs for agricultural
products, specifically within India and China.
At the same time, the business community will
have to actively promote the "proudly South
African” agriculture (and broadly food, fibre
and beverages) products within the bloc.
Overall, there is progress within BRICS
regarding identifying critical areas of focus,
which the five BBC chapters have now
adopted. The next step will be to drill down on
the delivery methods in these focal areas and
ensuring that each partner country benefits.
The coming months will be seized with
work on these issues, ahead of the BRICS
annual meetings in August, which will see the
BBC handing over recommendations to the
BRICS heads of state at the BRICS Business
Forum ahead of the flagship meeting of the
heads of state.
What has BRICS done thus far to serve
the agribusiness and agriculture
communities?
By Wandile Sihlobo
Chair of the BRICS Agribusiness Working Group
BRICS Business Council
Overall, there is progress within BRICS regarding identifying critical areas of focus,
which the five BBC chapters have now adopted. The next step will be to drill
down on the delivery methods in these focal areas and ensuring that each partner
country benefits.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
34 35

Western Cape, South Africa

T
he ascension of BRICS
(Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa) nations as
emerging economies on the
global stage over the past
few decades is a well-known
tale. However, the narrative that truly stands
out is the commendable role of women
spearheading this growth story through the
BRICS Women’s Business Alliance (BRICS
WBA).
At the heart of this initiative was
the 10th BRICS Summit, where the
Johannesburg Declaration came into
existence. This landmark declaration
recognised the invaluable contributions
of women to inclusive development. It
catalysed the creation of the BRICS Women's
BRICS WOMEN’S BUSINESS ALLIANCE: UNLOCKING THE GENDER DIVIDEND BRICS WOMEN’S BUSINESS ALLIANCE: UNLOCKING THE GENDER DIVIDEND
Forum and the BRICS WBA – initiatives
designed to amplify the voices of women
parliamentarians from BRICS countries
and promote increased interactions moving
forward.
The Russia BRICS Chairship, imbued with
a shared vision and a spirit of collaboration,
inaugurated the BRICS WBA in July 2020.
The alliance is now an official structure
within the BRICS cooperative framework.
Its primary objective is twofold: to amplify
women's participation in the economic
processes of BRICS nations and promote
the inclusion of women-led businesses in
global value chains.
South Africa's Presidency of the
XV BRICS Summit, themed BRICS and
Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated
Economic Growth, Sustainable Development
and Inclusive Multilateralism, introduced
several impactful economic activities:
• BRICS WBA South Africa executed,
in partnership with Jozini Local
Municipality, the Jozini Farmers
Imbizo on 10 March 2023, a landmark
gathering which concluded with several
significant outcomes that promise to
transform the agricultural landscape
in the country, including the formation
of a cooperative among the local
farmers. This initiative will allow for
pooling resources, sharing knowledge
and creating a unified voice to address
common issues, such as domestic and
international market access as well as
fair pricing.
BRICS Women’s Business Alliance:
Unlocking the Gender Dividend
By the BRICS Women's Business Alliance
The alliance is now an official structure within the BRICS cooperative framework.
Its primary objective is twofold: to amplify women's participation in the economic
processes of BRICS nations and promote the inclusion of women-led businesses
in global value chains.
• South Africa has been at the
forefront, conducting strategic
scoping missions with fellow BRICS
nations: Brazil, Russia, India and
China. These missions have been
pivotal in intensifying collaborative
relationships within this international
bloc, focussing on promoting balanced
and inclusive economic growth. Central
to their pursuit is the advancement
of women in trade, the attraction of
investments, capacity-building and
technology transfer. Unique focus is
placed on boosting women's economic
participation, acknowledging their role
as vital contributors to the economy.
These collaborative efforts have borne fruit
in several key areas:
• Business Intelligence Portal: A
successful joint endeavour was the
creation of a Business Intelligence
Portal. This cooperative development
aims to provide critical market insights,
trend analysis and information on
potential business opportunities,
aiding companies in making informed
decisions.
• Agriculture E-Commerce and Fintech
Solutions: Partnerships have been
formed to broaden the reach of the
agriculture e-commerce platform.
Coupled with the integration of fintech
solutions, this expansion aims to
amplify the presence of women agri-
preneurs in the BRICS markets,
opening up new avenues for their
products and services.
• Fuel Storage Facility: The establishment
of a fuel storage facility represents a
key achievement in the energy sector,
ensuring fuel storage capacity and
contributing to energy infrastructure
development in the country.
• Solar Farm Cooperation: Further in
the energy sector, there has been
significant cooperation in developing
solar farms. This reflects the
commitment of the BRICS countries
to sustainable energy and combatting
climate change.
• Innovative Building Centre of
Excellence: The creation of the
Innovative Building Centre of
Excellence underpins the importance
of construction and infrastructural
development. This institution will serve
as a hub for innovation, research and
skills development in the innovative
and building technologies industry.
• Banking Cooperation and Smart
Solutions: In the financial sector,
notable progress has been made in the
realm of banking cooperation and smart
solutions. This includes the sharing
of best practices and deployment of
smart banking solutions to bank the
unbankable and rural communities
across the country, technological
advancements and regulatory policies
and commercial licensing to enhance
the efficiency, security and accessibility
of financial services across BRICS
countries.
These achievements not only highlight the
progress made in strengthening economic
cooperation among the BRICS members but
also underscore the ongoing commitment to
fostering inclusive, balanced and sustainable
growth. Through these initiatives, the BRICS
WBA and its partners continue to champion
the cause of socio-economic development,
women's leadership and economic
advancement within the BRICS bloc.
Throughout 2023, the BRICS WBA
curated a plethora of events and initiatives,
demonstrating its commitment to fostering
women's economic participation across
BRICS countries:
• At the forefront of notable gatherings,
was the BRICS Women Leadership
Forum, hosted in Beijing. This esteemed
occasion served as a powerful
platform for women in leadership
positions to convene and deliberate
on the opportunities and obstacles
they encountered in their respective
journeys. During this significant
event, participants engaged in fruitful
discussions, shared innovative ideas
and collaborated to formulate effective
strategies aimed at bolstering the
representation and influence of women
within the BRICS bloc.
• Equally noteworthy, were the Business-
to-Business meetings that brought
together all the winners of the BRICS
Women Innovation contest. Hosted
by the Chinese Chapter of the WBA,
these meetings provided a platform for
these innovative women entrepreneurs
to network, explore potential
collaborations and share their unique
business ideas and models.
• The St Petersburg International
Economic Forum, a renowned business
event, has been a leading platform
for global economic discussions and
sustainable development practices for
26 years. On 17 June 2023, the Russia
Chapter of the BRICS WBA held a
captivating panel session, titled BRICS:
on the Verge of Change at the XXVI
forum. Dedicated to the prospects of
BRICS expansion and strengthening
international cooperation, the
session highlighted the pivotal role
of BRICS women leaders in shaping
and implementing the development
agenda. Attended by representatives
from BRICS WBA national chapters,
business and government as
moderated by Lebogang Zulu, the
BRICS WBA Rotating Chairperson,
and Anna Nesterova, the BRICS WBA
Russia Chapter Chairperson.
• Another highlight was the Women
Business Indaba in KwaZulu-Natal,
spearheaded by Premier Nomusa
Dube-Ncube and the Moses Kotane
Institute. The indaba represented
a critical opportunity for women
entrepreneurs to engage with key
stakeholders, access valuable
resources and gain insight into
business growth strategies.
• The Eastern Cape province, in
partnership with the Women Chamber
of the National African Federated
Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
and with sponsorship from the Eastern
Cape Development Corporation
and ABSA bank, also contributed
significantly to the cause. Their
collaboration resulted in successful
engagements that furthered the
economic empowerment of women
within the BRICS framework of
cooperation.
These multifaceted engagements, events
and initiatives have laid a robust foundation
for the continued advancement of women's
economic participation within the BRICS
countries.
They not only empower women to
contribute meaningfully to the economies
of their respective countries but also pave
the way for further collaborative initiatives
to promote gender equality and women's
economic empowerment.
A crucial result of these initiatives has
been the creation of an extensive pipeline
comprising more than 60 projects.
From their inception and feasibility
assessment to a state of execution-
readiness, these projects embody a
spectrum of opportunities.
They offer prospects for trade and
investment, strengthening capacities and
fostering technology partnerships. This
outcome is testament to the tangible impact
of these cooperative efforts, acting as a
driving force for continued growth and
collaboration among the BRICS women.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
39

and countries thrive, and the future is
undoubtedly female. #Womandla
The alliance's upcoming landmark event,
the BRICS-Africa WBA Trade Conference,
scheduled for 20 to 21 August 2023, is set to
be a trailblazing occasion, bringing together
500 women-owned businesses from 18
diverse countries.
This conference promises first-time
accomplishments and exciting unveilings,
marking a significant step in the alliance's
journey.
A standout feature will be the inaugural
physical meeting of the BRICS WBA's
national chapters, reaffirming the alliance's
commitment to regional cooperation and
shared growth. Additionally, the launch
of the Agrowex e-commerce platform will
revolutionise the agricultural industry,
providing a dynamic online marketplace for
agri-preneurs, embracing technology for
economic growth and inclusivity.
Moreover, the conference will witness the
unveiling of the BRICS Centre for Labour
Mobility and Education Services’ "Work and
Study", fostering labour mobility and diverse
educational services within the BRICS
countries and promoting cooperation and
shared prosperity.
Lastly, the event will introduce the BRICS
Global Television Network, with a special
focus on the BRICS MPower, giving voice
to the BRICS countries on a global scale,
sharing their vibrant stories and enhancing
understanding among nations.
In essence, the BRICS-Africa WBA Trade
Conference is set to be a groundbreaking
event, demonstrating the unwavering
commitment of the BRICS WBA to promoting
women's economic participation, regional
cooperation and shared growth.
As we celebrate these achievements, we
also recognise that there is still a long way
to go to achieve true gender parity, but the
alliance stands as a beacon of hope, proving
that progress is attainable when visionary
leaders come together to invest in women.
"BRICS women, let us unite and embrace
our collective strength, charting a path
towards an inclusive and prosperous future
that empowers the girl child of tomorrow." ‒
Lebogang Zulu.
BRICS WOMEN’S BUSINESS ALLIANCE: UNLOCKING THE GENDER DIVIDEND
Unleashing the Gender Dividend: BRICS
Women Development eGoli Declaration
In July 2023, a momentous occasion took
place in the dynamic city of Durban, as the
South African Chapter of BRICS WBA, in
collaboration with Premier Dube-Ncube,
hosted a compelling Gender Dividend
Debate. The event served as a crucial
precursor to the upcoming XV BRICS
Summit in August.
Titled, Tomorrow's Multipolar World,
Through a Gender Lens, the debate brought
together eminent female leaders, visionaries
and experts from various fields to address
the pressing issue of gender parity and the
realisation of gender dividends.
Distinguished participants included
renowned figures such as the Minister in The
Presidency responsible for Women, Youth
and Persons with Disabilities, Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini Zuma; the Deputy Minister of Trade,
Industry and Cooperation, Nomalungelo
Gina; Dr Arikana Chihombori; Ambassador
Erieka Bennett; and Madam Sharmila
Govind from the New Development Bank.
These influential women represented diverse
spheres, including politics, government,
entrepreneurship and advocacy groups.
The primary objective of the session was
to foster a robust dialogue centred around
the invaluable contributions of women to
politics, government and business.
At the heart of the discussion was the
significance of gender diversity within
organisations and the urgent need to address
the challenges that persist despite progress
in promoting inclusive economies within the
global power architecture.
Lebogang Zulu, Chairperson of BRICS
WBA South Africa, stressed the critical
importance of incorporating women's voices
into the decision-making structures of BRICS
countries. Such inclusion is essential for
advancing gender equality and equity by
2030, in alignment with the Johannesburg
XV BRICS Summit Declaration.
Ms Zulu highlighted the realistic challenges
faced by women in political, social and
economic arenas, emphasising the necessity
of innovative approaches to elevate women's
voices and support female leaders in
influential positions within BRICS. She also
proposed key elements to be included in
the BRICS Women Development eGoli
Declaration, including the establishment of
female-led advisory committees to serve
at the BRICS Presidential, Ministerial and
Sherpa levels, ensuring an inclusive agenda
is a top priority for BRICS.
During the debate, participants explored
essential themes, including the correlation
between economic growth and gender
equality.
The panellists provided robust evidence
in support of the Gender Dividend concept,
underscoring the positive impact of gender
diversity on financial performance.
The event also shed light on the vital
role of leadership in cultivating an inclusive
environment that supports professional
growth and diversity of thought.
Furthermore, the significance of
mentorship and sponsorship programmes
in accelerating women's career progression
was emphasised, along with the importance
of prioritising diversity and inclusion efforts to
combat gender bias in the workplace.
Attendees of the Gender Dividend Debate
praised the event for its empowerment and
insightfulness, as it provided a meaningful
platform for profound discussions on gender
diversity.
The transformative power of embracing
gender multiplicity was highlighted, and the
invaluable contributions of women were
celebrated, acknowledging the Gender
Dividend as a strategic advantage for
organisations. The discourse during the
debate is expected to leave a lasting impact
on all participants, charting a course towards
a more equitable and prosperous future
within the BRICS countries.
We are inspired by the remarkable strides
made by the BRICS WBA in empowering
women entrepreneurs across the world's
largest emerging economies.
By providing training, networking and
access to funding, the alliance is unlocking
the tremendous economic potential of
women, proving that the Gender Dividend is
real and promising.
When we empower women with
opportunities and support, communities
We are inspired by the remarkable strides made by the BRICS WBA in
empowering women entrepreneurs across the world's largest emerging
economies. By providing training, networking and access to funding, the
alliance is unlocking the tremendous economic potential of women, proving
that the Gender Dividend is real and promising.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
40

E
stablished in 2013, the South
Africa BRICS Business
Council’s objective is to
constitute a platform,
which will promote and
strengthen business, trade
and investment ties among the business
communities of the five BRICS countries i.e.
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.
Additionally, the SA BRICS Business
Council fosters regular dialogue between the
business communities of the BRICS nations
and the governments of the BRICS countries;
and identify problems and bottlenecks
to ensure greater economic, trade and
investment ties among the BRICS members,
recommend solutions accordingly and
advance South Africa’s brand intentionally.
To bring the various dialogue opportunities
to life, the SA BRICS Council formed nine
working groups to facilitate and spearhead
dialogues and interactions among the BRICS
member countries.
The working groups focus on specific areas
key to trade and investment namely, Finance,
Energy, Manufacturing, Agribusiness,
Deregulation, Infrastructure, Aviation, Digital
Economy, and Skills.
As Chairperson of the SA BRICS Skills
Development Working Group (SDWG) under
the priority area Transforming Education and
Skills Development, I am leading a team
SOUTH AFRICA TO HOST BRICS FUTURE SKILLS CHALLENGE
of experts to host the BRICS Future Skills
Challenge in South Africa, Johannesburg,
from 12 to 15 September 2023. The objective
of the challenge is to understand how the
partner member countries approach the
development of critical digital skills challenges
confronting businesses.
The SDWG has been working on assessing
skills for developing BRICS skills standards,
identifying gaps for curriculum development
and putting it to test at the Future Skills
Challenge.
The Future Skills Challenge has therefore
become a flagship event for the SDWG for
BRICS, where hundreds of brilliant minds
(ages 16-35) from Brazil, Russia, India, China,
South Africa and Africa are invited to test their
knowledge and creativity to help solve critical
challenges against the standards.
There are 50 skills identified that the
SDWG has been working on, but for the year
2023, only 12 critical skills areas have been
identified and agreed upon for the Future
Skills Challenge to be held in South Africa.
The SA BRICS SDWG has already
completed standards for two skills areas,
which are under assessment.
Additionally, the group has developed an
atlas of skills that are emerging and required
in future for the food and beverages sector.
The atlas was launched and handed over
to the Food and Beverage Sector Education
Training Authority to prepare the sector for
changing jobs and socialising the requisite
future skills.
The BRICS Future Skills Challenge serves
as a platform to collate and provide insights
into how we, as BRICS member countries, can
partner to continuously support businesses by
helping them respond to new and emerging
skills.
Participants are expected to come up
with solutions in the areas of energy, water
and health as common areas of sustainable
challenge among the BRICS partner countries.
In front of a panel of judges, participants are
to present their solutions hoping for the best
technology-led solutions.
The BRICS Future Skills Challenge will
have experts from across the BRICS member
countries assigned to different skills areas to
develop and mentor participants.
This is an opportunity for South African
youth to benchmark their skills against their
counterparts from the BRICS countries. It is
also a great platform to present their solutions
to potential investors and gain job experiences
within the BRICS bloc.
All young tech gurus and interested parties
out there are invited to this opportunity to
network, learn and gain experience with
industry leaders.
To find out more, visit the website
www.bricsfutureskills.co.za.
SOUTH AFRICA TO HOST
BRICS FUTURE SKILLS
CHALLENGE
By Mapule Ncanywa, Chairperson: Skills Development Working Group, South Africa BRICS Business Council
The objective of the BRICS Future Skills Challenge is to understand how the
partner member countries approach the development of critical digital skills
challenges confronting businesses.

The SA BRICS Business Council fosters regular dialogue
between the business communities of the BRICS
nations and the governments of the BRICS countries;
and identify problems and bottlenecks to ensure greater
economic, trade and investment ties among the BRICS
countries, recommend solutions and advance South
Africa’s brand intentionally.
All young tech gurus
and interested parties
out there are invited
to this opportunity to
network, learn and gain
experience with industry
leaders.
Education is the most powerful
weapon which you can use to
change the world.
– Nelson Mandela –
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
42

T
he 2023 BRICS Urbanisation
Forum took place from 26 to
27 July 2023 under the theme:
Advancing Urban Resilience
for Sustainable Cities and
Towns for Future Generations.
Like many other countries, BRICS member
states continue to grapple with issues of
urbanisation, resilience and sustainability
while endeavouring to meet their respective
development goals.
Although shocks such as the COVID-19
pandemic offer clues about how a continued
state of flux can be navigated, they are
remiss in articulating solutions for long-term
resilience, sustainability and development.
The Resilient Cities Network describes
resilience as the “capacity of individuals,
communities, institutions, businesses and
systems within a city to survive, adapt and
grow, no matter what kinds of chronic stresses
and acute shocks they experience”.
South Africa’s Department of Environment,
Forestry and Fisheries describes resilience as
“the ability of a social, economic or ecological
system to absorb disturbances while retaining
the same basic structure and ways of
functioning, the capacity for self-organisation
and the capacity to adapt to stress and
change".
In contexts such as South Africa, the aim is
to ensure that developmental issues such as
A
s the Deputy Minister for
the Public Service and
Administration, I recently
delivered a keynote address
at the BRICS Conference
on Governance and Public
Administration Reform at the University of
Pretoria.
The pre-summit conference was held as
part of the build-up towards the XV BRICS
Summit.
The theme of the summit, BRICS and
Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated
Growth, Sustainable Development and
Inclusive Multilateralism, highlights the
importance of building partnerships between
BRICS countries and Africa to unlock mutually
beneficial opportunities for increased trade,
investment and infrastructure development.
South Africa's five priorities for 2023
are focussed on developing inclusive
partnerships, upscaling education and skills
development, unlocking opportunities through
the African Continental Free Trade Area,
strengthening post-pandemic socio-economic
recovery and strengthening multilateralism.
As a country, South Africa is committed to
building a developmental state that efficiently
guides national economic development
by mobilising and directing resources in a
manner that enhances the realisation of
developmental goals.
A developmental state must be able to
direct and promote economic development
by establishing a strong public sector that
promotes an investor-friendly climate, small
business development, effective state-owned
enterprises and drives strategic investment
programmes.
Investing in building human capabilities
is key to driving the developmental state
agenda.
The National School of Government (NSG)
in South Africa remains a key institution to
drive the developmental state agenda of
building state capacity.
The NSG programmes focus on on-the-
job training and development in the Public
Service for public servants, senior managers
and executive leaders.
The reach of the NSG has also grown on the
African continent, with bilateral agreements
and the African Management Development
Institutes’ Network.
As we celebrate the life and times of Tata
Nelson Mandela, we must remember his
message of peace:
One of the mistakes which some political
analysts make is to think their enemies
should be our enemies. Our attitude towards
any country is determined by the attitude of
that country to our struggle.
This approach is what today guides South
Africa’s stance on international relations that
encourages peaceful resolution of any form
of conflict in line with the United Nations
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
I believe that by working together, we can
build a better BRICS, a better Africa and a
better world.
Let us focus on building strong partnerships
and investing in human capabilities to drive
the developmental state agenda.
Let us work towards peace and inclusive
multilateralism to achieve sustainable
development for all.
Partnership between BRICS
and Africa will unlock mutually
beneficial opportunities
By Dr Chana Pilane-Majake
Deputy Minister for the Public Service and Administration
PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN BRICS AND AFRICA WILL UNLOCK MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL OPPORTUNITIES
As a country, South Africa is committed to building a developmental state that
efficiently guides national economic development by mobilising and directing
resources in a manner that enhances the realisation of developmental goals.
CREATING RESILIENT SOUTH AFRICAN CITIES
inequality, unemployment and poverty are not
worsened due to chronic stresses and acute
shocks.
Against the backdrop of chronic stresses
such as high unemployment, inadequate
public transport systems, endemic violence
and food insecurity, South African cities are
already in a precarious position when they
are impacted by acute shocks. The pandemic
has worsened a bad situation and highlighted
the vulnerability of municipalities, particularly
the state of their finances. It has revealed that
over three-quarters (78%) of municipalities
are unprepared to address periods of reduced
revenue.
However, a silver lining is that the
COVID-19 pandemic offers lessons for
building financially resilient and sustainable
municipalities, which can plan for changes
over time, deal with adverse external shocks
and adjust revenues and expenditures in
response.
Previous stresses and shocks have taught
us that resilient urban municipalities are
foundational to resilient urban communities.
Building urban resilience requires effective
governance, institutional capacity and
coordination among various stakeholders.
Challenges in governance, including
inadequate urban planning, weak enforcement
of regulations and limited financial resources
can hinder the implementation of resilient
strategies and initiatives. We’ve also
learned that cities must look holistically at
their capacities and risks, including through
meaningful engagement with the most
vulnerable members of their communities.
We've learned that resilience should be
planned for and not only engaged with when
a crisis occurs.
This will enable cities to tackle challenges
and create solutions place-based, integrated,
and proactively, allowing them to realise
“resilience dividends”.
Resilience dividends capture the idea that
building resilience realises benefits both in
times of crisis and calm. With this approach,
we can frame resilience as a process
focussing on improving capacity and systems
to create a resilience dividend that will assist
a city in surviving, adapting and growing after
experiencing chronic stress or acute shocks
to improve the status quo.
Lastly, we have learned that resilience
cannot be built within a silo or one specific
department, but should be taken as a cross-
departmental initiative.
Moreover, government alone cannot
solve these problems that are complex and
entrenched; an all-of-society approach is
needed to find long-term, sustainable and
equitable solutions.
Creating resilient
South African cities
By the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs
The COVID-19 pandemic offers lessons for building financially resilient and
sustainable municipalities, which can plan for changes over time, deal with the
adverse external shocks and adjust revenues and expenditures in response.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
44 45

BRICS: EQUIPPING LEARNERS WITH SKILLS FIT FOR THE FUTUREBRICS: EQUIPPING LEARNERS WITH SKILLS FIT FOR THE FUTURE
B
RICS is a partnership of five
leading emerging markets
and developing countries,
founded on historical bonds
of friendship, solidarity and
shared interests. The five
leading emerging markets and developing
countries are Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa.
South Africa’s participation in BRICS is
premised on its National Interest in line with
the National Development Plan and the
Medium Term Strategic Framework 2019 –
2024.
The objectives of South Africa’s
engagement in BRICS are to enhance the
future growth and development of South
Africa through its BRICS membership,
strengthen intra-BRICS relations and develop
mutually beneficial collaboration across the
three pillars of cooperation. It is common
knowledge that one of the founding values
of BRICS is the shared commitment to
restructure the global political, economic and
financial architecture to be fair, balanced and
representative, resting on the important pillars
of multilateralism and international law.
The BRICS partnership has grown in scope
and depth with BRICS members exploring
practical cooperation in a spirit of openness
and solidarity to find mutual interests and
common values.
Several meetings are held annually across
the three pillars of BRICS cooperation:
political and security cooperation; financial
and economic cooperation; and cultural and
people-to-people cooperation.
South Africa assumed the BRICS Chairship
on 1 January 2023, following its first successful
hosting of BRICS in 2018. It is for this reason
that we have witnessed a number of activities
across the country in preparation for the
August Summit to be hosted by President
Cyril Ramaphosa.
The Department of Higher Education and
Training, joined by the Department of Basic
Education and the Mpumalanga Provincial
Government, recently delivered a successful
10th Meeting of BRICS Ministers of Education
at Skukuza Safari Lodge in the Kruger
National Park, Mpumalanga. The meeting
took place at a time when new forms of
education access and innovative approaches
to teaching and learning are at centre stage
with the aid of digital technologies.
Taking place under the theme, Responsive
and Relevant Education and Training in the
Current Global Context, the meeting provided
an important platform for the five countries to
share experiences, undertake joint initiatives
and facilitate student and staff exchanges. It
provided a stimulating platform to collaborate
on education and training challenges and
opportunities, against the backdrop of growing
levels of devastating weather patterns,
unemployment, inequality and poverty, higher
costs of living and lower levels of economic
growth.
The previous BRICS ministers of education
meetings focusses on a number of topics and
saw a need for the formation of communities
of practice to advance the BRICS Education
and Training Agenda.
One such community of practice is the
BRICS Network University, which seeks to
enhance cooperation and exchanges among
member universities. The BRICS Network
University was established in November 2015
through a Memorandum of Understanding
signed by the BRICS ministers of education.
It comprises six international thematic groups,
namely: Energy; Computer Science and
Information Security; Ecology and Climate
Change; BRICS Studies; Economics; and
Water Resources and Pollution Treatment.
The BRICS Think Tanks Council is another
community of practice that serves as an
advisory body to the BRICS leaders. The
council is also responsible for coordinating
and convening the annual Academic Forum
and ensuring that the academic input and
recommendations made at the forum are
presented to BRICS. Over 20 research projects
have been supported and the partnership has
contributed to several innovative development
concepts for international cooperation.
 On the other hand, the BRICS Academic
Forum provides a platform for scholars
in BRICS to share ideas and reflect on a
range of topics. The aim is to generate and
promote an intra-BRICS knowledge base and
exchange to reduce dependency on Western
powers as sources of knowledge for individual
BRICS members.
 The BRICS Technical and Vocational
Education and Training (TVET) Cooperation
Alliance has 68 founding members, including
vocational education associations, vocational
education institutions, research organisations
and businesses. The BRICS TVET
Corporation Alliance was officially inaugurated
in May 2022 and serves as a multilateral
platform for exchanging information and
practices to foster cooperation between
BRICS TVET stakeholders. Its objective
is to empower youth through productive
employment and contribute to BRICS' socio-
economic development.
 These are all important initiatives of
the BRICS ministers of education and
resolutions that feed into their discussions
and deliberations.
As the Director-General of the Department
of Higher Education and Training, I had the
pleasure of delivering a keynote address at
the BRICS Network University at North West
University in Potchefstroom early in July 2023
and also chaired the BRICS Education Senior
Officials Meeting at Skukuza Safari Lodge,
ahead of the 10th Meeting of BRICS Ministers
of Education. There has been tremendous
improvement since our chairing of BRICS in
2018, particularly on the commitments and
work done by all BRICS member countries in
areas of mutual interest. There is also a huge
improvement and evidence in the maturity
of the system itself; the manner in which
countries coordinate their work and continue
to work together.
 Important for higher education is the
plurality and diversity of voices across all our
institutions to ensure that new knowledge
systems are shared among us. The sharing of
research agendas and collaboration will make
a bigger impact and help us, for example, to
close the gap between universities that over
the past years have benefitted from better
financial support and those who have lagged
behind for many years. What is therefore
important for us should be the closing of
the gap between universities of all types,
wherever they are located in the spectrum
and profile of our institutions.
The BRICS Network University also
provides us with an opportunity to continue
to improve our network, internally, but also
with universities across all BRICS member
countries. I appreciated as Chair, that there
was consciousness that the work we were
doing was a build-up towards the summit of
leaders; that our work will feed into this summit
and be received as inputs to the leaders later
in the year on what new resolutions must be
taken in the space in which we operate.
 The 10th Meeting of BRICS Ministers
of Education discussed issues of mutual
interest to BRICS members, deepened
cooperation and identified priorities for
continued partnerships. The meeting also
reflected on the success and commitments
made at previous meetings of the BRICS
education ministers and strengthened BRICS
exchanges and partnerships in areas where
they have not moved forward.
 In his closing remarks, Dr Blade
Nzimande, the Minister of Higher Education,
Science and Innovation, said, “BRICS must
remain committed to its priorities, especially
those that have been identified for this year.
We must be reminded that our principle of
cooperation is based on mutual respect while
jointly pursuing developmental agenda.
“Our BRICS educational structures require
a fresh approach and focus on supporting the
overall objectives of BRICS. Let us all reflect
on resolutions and declarations that have
been adopted this year.”
 The declaration commits all BRICS
member states to the following, among others:
• To strengthen entrepreneurship
development at all levels of education
and training among BRICS member
states and impart the requisite skills-
set to students to consider self-
employment as a valuable career path.
• To rethink and reimagine the global
rankings of universities because it
tends to be skewed towards valuing the
priorities and context of universities of
the global North, imposes indefensible
costs on developing country universities
and detracts from norms emphasising
cooperation, collaboration, sharing
and solidarity. This commitment to
develop an alternative system includes
exploring the development of an
evaluation system that emphasises
the quality (as opposed to quantity) of
research outputs of universities and
their diverse contributions to inclusive
development of all humanity. Such
system will also seek to integrate the
cultural and indigenous knowledge of
each country, respecting our member
states’ diverse cultures.
• To improve the quality and enhance
international cooperation on higher
education and training through mutual
recognition qualifications in line with
the Global Education 2030 Agenda.
• To facilitate exchanges of ideas and
experiences within BRICS member
states on interventions for equipping
learners with skills fit for the future
through multiple learning pathways
education to prepare them for the
changing world of work and equitable
social justice.

We remain thankful to the South African
Public Colleges Organisation for its
leadership as the convener of the BRICS
TVET Cooperation Alliance meeting, which
took place at Ekurhuleni West TVET College
in Germiston.
We are also thankful to Universities
South Africa for its participation leadership
in the BRICS Network University and its
International Governing Board.
We appeal to universities that are active
members of the BRICS Network University
to work harder and recruit more universities
within BRICS member states to join the
network.
BRICS: Equipping learners with
skills fit for the future
By Dr Nkosinathi Sishi
Director-General of the Department of Higher Education and Training
Over 20 research projects
have been supported
and the partnership has
contributed to several
innovative development
concepts for international
cooperation.
The 10th Meeting of
BRICS Ministers of
Education discussed
issues of mutual interest
to BRICS members,
deepened cooperation
and identified priorities for
continued partnerships.
The BRICS partnership has grown in scope and depth with BRICS members
exploring practical cooperation in a spirit of openness and solidarity to find mutual
interests and common values.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
46 47

Nelson Mandela Bridge, Johannesburg, South Africa

In the words of former President Nelson Mandela: Our differences make the people
of BRICS a global rainbow community   — a shining light in providing leadership
and charting a new era of harmony, peace, cooperation and development for the
benefit of all.
O
ne of the key focus
areas of South Africa’s
Chairship in 2023 is to
deepen and strengthen
people-to-people ties
among BRICS countries.
A people-centred BRICS community is one
of the major strengths of our cooperative
relations.
Our BRICS partnership has deep roots in
the formal government cooperation tracks
across all three pillars of cooperation: political
and security; financial and economic; as well
as social/people-to-people cooperation.
The partnership is more than government-
to-government relations. It is inclusive of
women, youth, civil societies, media, ruling
parties, parliaments, law societies, cultural
organisations, sports federations, arts, theatre
and film, to name but a few.
Some of the global narratives about BRICS
constantly aim to highlight our differences.
It speaks of our different histories, cultures,
religions, development paths and forms of
governance as something negative.  However,
the uniqueness of BRICS is precisely the
diversity and richness, which weld us together
as a powerful global force. It brings us together
to work together in cooperation not only for our
own benefit but for the global community.
In the words of former President Nelson
Mandela: Our differences make the people of
BRICS a global rainbow community ‒ a shining
light in providing leadership and charting a
new era of harmony, peace, cooperation and
development for the benefit of all.
We live in a very fractured world and
therefore, new solutions are desperately
needed for the challenges confronting
humanity today.
We have seen the global pandemic erase
almost all the gains we have made towards the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The world is increasingly divided and the
return to Cold War mentalities and the
preservation of hegemonic tendencies have
further exacerbated the situation, especially
for the global South.
The key developmental challenges of
poverty, underdevelopment and inequality
are increasing, but are being relegated to
the margins by those who have the means to
make a difference. Attention and resources
are being shifted away from the Sustainable
Development Goals, including from the most
needy and vulnerable.
We cannot count on those who profess to
be the leaders of the global community.
BRICS as a powerful voice of the global
South must leverage its combined resources,
influence and leadership, in partnership with
other like-minded emerging market and
developing countries, to provide the global
leadership that is lacking in the world today.
This is what is expected of BRICS.
This is the motivation for South Africa's
theme as Chair of BRICS in 2023: BRICS and
Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated
Growth, Sustainable Development and
Inclusive Multilateralism.
Our theme emphasises the value of
BRICS as a partnership of leading emerging
markets and developing countries generating
momentum towards global growth, sustainable
development and inclusion of the global South
in the world system. Governments cannot
deliver on this alone. It requires a whole-of-
community and whole-of-society approach.
The importance of social and people-to-
people cooperation was visible in the BRICS
response to COVID-19. BRICS was at the
forefront of a compassionate response to the
global North and the South.
Our response to climate change and the
restructuring of our economies must also be
compassionate. Our solutions to one problem
should not leave others behind.
As Chair, we will explore how BRICS
can lead with solutions for an equitable
just transition. We can manage the risks
associated with climate change while still
improving the lives and futures of those
people employed under the umbrella of old
industries.
An equitable just transition will require new
ideas and initiatives. BRICS is a platform for
sharing and learning. Our cooperation has led
to the establishment of the BRICS Academic
Forum, BRICS Think Tank Council, Network
of BRICS Universities and the virtual BRICS
Vaccine Research and Development Centre.
More than 100 multilateral BRICS research
projects have been funded under the BRICS
Framework Programme. Our research
partnership is based on joint ownership
and shared responsibility; the real and
open sharing of experience, expertise and
resources; and a determination for BRICS
research to advance the global good.
Our differences as well as our unique
identity and strength become the anchor of
our ever-expanding cooperation benefitting
from our richness and diversity. BRICS brings
people together to forge new friendships,
deepen relations and mutual understanding
between BRICS peoples in the spirit of
openness, inclusiveness, diversity, solidarity
and mutual respect.
Under our Chairship, we will continue
the wide range of BRICS people-to-people
platforms, including the Youth Summit, Young
Diplomats Forum, Parliamentary Forum, Civil
BRICS as well as the Media Forum.
We will focus on the Action Plan for the
Implementation of the Culture Agreement,
promoting the development of BRICS cultural
digitisation and deepening cooperation in
areas such as cultural arts, heritage and
industry. We look forward to changing
narratives in the BRICS Media Forum,
empowering our media with the BRICS
International Journalism Training Programme
and the Joint Photography Exhibition.
President Cyril Ramaphosa has emphasised
that BRICS is centred on people-to-people
contact. The pandemic weakened these
links when all travel was banned. A return to
people-to-people contact will help our travel
and tourism sectors recover.
This year, we will further strengthen the
BRICS Alliance for Green Tourism to forge
a more resilient, sustainable and inclusive
tourism sector and promote the high-quality
development of BRICS culture and tourism
cooperation.
We encourage sports ministries and
federations of BRICS to strengthen
communication and maintain coordination in
international sports affairs. We look forward
to hosting the BRICS Games in Durban later
this year.
Our Chairship is not isolated. It builds on
the excellent work of the chairs before us.
We are seized with the important discussions
on the guiding principles, standards, criteria
and procedures for BRICS membership
expansion.
For South Africa, the immense interest in
joining BRICS is recognition that we remain
true to our foundational values of creating
a more inclusive and equitable global
community, strengthening multilateralism and
being a catalyst for global economic recovery
and growth and a stable and peaceful world.
As a collective, we will work together
both to address challenges and explore
opportunities for mutual benefit for all. We
will work together to place BRICS at the
forefront of shaping a new people-centred
global society.
BRICS Partnership:
Forging strong people-to-people ties
For South Africa, the
immense interest in joining
BRICS is recognition that
we remain true to our
foundational values of
creating a more inclusive
and equitable global
community, strengthening
multilateralism and being
a catalyst for global
economic recovery and
growth and a stable and
peaceful world.
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS and South Africa's BRICS Sherpa
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
BRICS as a powerful voice of the global South must
leverage its combined resources, influence and
leadership, in partnership with other like-minded
emerging market and developing countries, to provide
the global leadership that is lacking in the world today.
This is what is expected of BRICS.
BRICS PARTNERSHIP: FORGING STRONG PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE TIESBRICS PARTNERSHIP: FORGING STRONG PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE TIES
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
50 51

infrastructure and employment for our
citizens. The BRICS Sous-Sherpa, Ben
Joubert, expressed shared commitment
to improving the lives and livelihoods of
our people, of advancing the interests and
developmental goals of the global South
as well as the contribution to the socio-
economic development of South Africa and
regeneration of Africa.
The aim of the Tourism Dialogue was
therefore to bring together leaders within
the region across the tourism sector, which
can still reach or even exceed the 2030
predictions, considering the sustainability and
resilience lessons learned out of COVID-19.
South Africa aims for its BRICS membership
to contribute to the sustainable growth and
development of South Africa and Africa, to
strengthen relations with BRICS partners and
to increase mutually beneficial cooperation
with BRICS partners across the three pillars
of cooperation.
BRICS ADVANCES AFRICAN TOURISM AGENDABRICS ADVANCES AFRICAN TOURISM AGENDA
T
he rising giant that is Africa,
stands tall and proud. It blows
its own horn and sings its own
song.
In celebration of Africa
Month in May and to give
expression to the ethos of the premier Pan-
African tradeshow, Africa’s Travel Indaba,
the Department of Tourism hosted the
African Dialogue with several African tourism
ministers, led by the Minister of Tourism,
Patricia de Lille, under the theme: Sustainable
Tourism Development.
The Tourism Dialogue focussed on South
Africa’s leveraging of its BRICS membership
to address the triple challenges of inequality,
poverty and unemployment through increased
intra-BRICS trade, investment, tourism,
capacity-building, skills and technology
transfers. As Chair of BRICS in 2023, South
Africa will pursue the potential for growing
trade and investment, as well as intra-African
trade and investment, while advancing the
benefits of the African Continental Free Trade
Area (AfCFTA).
The dialogue was held on the sidelines
of Africa’s Travel Indaba, one of the largest
tourism marketing events on the African
calendar, which showcases the widest variety
of Africa's best tourism products and attracts
more than 1 000 international buyers and
media from across the world. It also provided
an opportunity for face-to-face interactions,
networking, sharing ideas and forging
partnerships that will enhance the industry’s
recovery, particularly after the COVID-19
lockdowns and disruption to the greater global
tourism industry.
With a sharp focus on Africa’s excellence,
this Tourism Dialogue created a high-
level platform for thought leaders and
representatives from various countries.
Countries present included Botswana,
Democratic Republic of Congo, Eswatini,
Zambia, Mozambique, Malawi, Zimbabwe,
Namibia and a representative from the African
Union (AU).
The African Dialogue presented a valuable
opportunity to learn from these countries so
that there can be seamless synergy between
ourselves and the markets that we are
focussing on, especially in Africa, to help us
fulfil our obligation from a supply point of view.
This will give South Africa significant insight
on how to reintegrate back into the tourism
value chain, post COVID-19
Tourism has the potential to be a catalyst
for change on the African continent. Africa's
Travel Indaba 2023 and this Tourism
Dialogue provided the space to deliberate
on “how” to rethink our policies, recognise
emerging trends, mitigate threats and identify
opportunities.
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the
United Nations World Tourism Organisation
(UNWTO) predicted the region's international
tourist arrivals would reach 134 million
by 2030, up from 70 million in 2019. The
UNWTO's January 2023 report shows that
Africa has recovered about 65% of its pre-
pandemic visitors, and tourism in Africa
contributed US$ 1.6 trillion in 2022.
The AU's Agenda 2063 identifies tourism
as a critical driver of inclusive growth, a job
creator and a wealth generator. Not one
African Minister or business leader has all the
answers, but a collective dialogue can steer
us on the right path.
Senior Tourism Policy Officer at the
Department of Infrastructure and Energy
at the AU Commission (AUC), Mustapha
Ouabbas, emphasised the importance of
tourism to the continent.
“Our largest trade resides in Africa and
the tourism sector in Africa has always been
a liberal sector. The major challenges are
accessibility due to poor infrastructure and
the high cost of travel. The AUC has launched
a flagship programme to accelerate progress
in the tourism sector, whose agreement
was signed in 2018. The Programme
for Infrastructure in Africa is aimed at
interconnection to host development of the
tourism industry on the continent,” said Mr
Ouabbas.
Minister De Lille was adamant that African
countries must work together to find solutions
to current tourism challenges. “We need
solutions. We must hear from countries in
East Africa what they are doing differently to
recover quicker from COVID-19 and increase
tourism arrivals. We need to think of solutions
to improve air access, how to market Brand
Africa, how to facilitate public-private
partnerships, cement country-to-country
cooperation and promote innovation and use
of technology. It is clear that key priorities are
to move even faster to gradually liberalise air
policies and create an intra-continental air
transport architecture that facilitates intra-
African travel and trade, and to remove travel
barriers such as cumbersome paper visas by
switching to e-visas as well as visa waiver and
regional visa schemes, to name but a few,”
said Minister De Lille.
The AUC has prioritised tourism among the
socio-economic sectors in defining the targets
and strategies for the African Agenda 2063.
We believe tourism has a huge potential
and would go a long way in improving the
economic and social status of Africans in the
next few decades.
Agenda 2063 identifies key activities to be
undertaken, which will ensure that Agenda
2063 delivers both quantitative and qualitative
transformational outcomes for Africa’s people.
South Africa is committed to building a
partnership between BRICS and Africa to
unlock mutually beneficial opportunities for
increased trade, investment and infrastructure
development.
The BRICS countries constitute the
largest trading partners of Africa and the
most significant new investors and has
nourished Africa's economic emergence and
elevated the continent's contemporary global
positioning. This year, the BRICS countries
overtook the G7 countries as the most
significant combined economy.
The significance of South Africa's
participation in BRICS is enormous for Africa
and underpins our commitment to participate
in the continent's development, "Building a
Better Africa and a Better World." Growing
tourism is one of the focus areas for BRICS.
“We cannot achieve successful results in
the tourism industry, if we continue to work
in isolation as individual countries. We have
to start pursuing joint strategies in order to
accelerate growth in this sector. Tourists are
not interested in our administrative borders;
they want to explore as many site attractions
as possible given limited resources and time
at their disposal. Therefore, we need to focus
on joint marketing of our tourism attractions
across African borders,” continued Minister
De Lille.
The dialogue saw different countries
presenting their perspectives and sharing
best practice. It is evident that Africa is
indeed ready, safe and open for business.
The collective call to action was: “Let us work
together to visualise and realise the Africa we
want. All indications are that Africa is ready,
more than ever before, to become the world’s
most telling story of the creation of hope and
prosperity,” said Minister De Lille.
The Tourism Minister of Zimbabwe,
Nqobizitha Magaliso, said: “Intra-African
travel is key to our success as a region. We
need to make it easy for tourists to travel from
one African country to the next. Therefore, we
need to advance ease of travel by improving
our connectivity and visa regime.”
The Tourism Minister of Malawi, Vera
Kamtukele, stated: “We have structured
tourism at the centre of our strategy to build
back better after the pandemic. As tourism
is not a standalone portfolio, we need to
leverage on other industries and draw on
their resources. At the same time, we need to
maintain our authenticity while still working in
collaboration with each other.”
Minister De Lille further urged countries
present to rethink and sharpen their focus
for a better Africa that attracts visitors to the
continent and create sustainable industries,
BRICS advances
African Tourism Agenda
By Natasha Rockman
Department of Tourism
With a sharp focus on
Africa’s excellence, this
Tourism Dialogue created
a high-level platform for
thought leaders and
representatives from
various countries.
The Tourism Dialogue focussed on South Africa’s leveraging of its BRICS membership
to address the triple challenges of inequality, poverty and unemployment through
increased intra-BRICS trade, investment, tourism, capacity-building, skills and
technology transfers.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
52 53

REIMAGINING THE BRICS BUSINESS COUNCIL TO INSTITUTIONALISE A LEGACY OF DELIVERY
T
he advent of the 10th
anniversary of the BRICS
Business Council (BBC) calls
for a reflection on the work
of the BBC, with a key focus
on milestones achieved and
identifying areas of improvement in line with
its mandate. The anniversary provides South
Africa with an opportunity to reimagine the
operating model of the BBC and assess
critical opportunities with a view to develop a
meaningful trajectory.
The past decade largely focussed on
knowledge-sharing and the development
of processes, with some moderate level of
success achieved. The next decade must
inject a level of pragmatism into the work
programme of the BBC, through:
• the delivery of tangible project(s)
across BRICS countries by introducing
legacy/flagship projects that may
be implemented in partnership with
government
• trade and investment promotion, with
targeted trade missions building intra-
BRICS sector networks as well as
acting as a critical access point for
business to government to unblock
challenges
• ensuring learning, knowledge-sharing
and advocacy through understanding
how our partner BRIC countries
approach common development
challenges confronting business and
develop recommendations.
South Africa assumed the Chairship of BRICS
this year under the theme: BRICS and Africa:
Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive
Multilateralism.
The South African BBC will ensure the
two economic priorities of our Chairship are
achieved. The first priority is developing
a partnership towards an equitable just
transition. One of the key outcomes of this
initiative will be the establishment of an
African Centre of Excellence, which will
network with centres of excellence across the
African continent and the BRIC countries to
share and collaborate on projects related to
the Just Energy Transition (JET).
The second priority is around transforming
education and skills development for the
future. The expected outcome of this initiative
will be the:
• development of BRICS energy skills
benchmarking
• identification of current jobs data and
statistics
• a BRICS cooperative skill planning
approach for the JET
• identification of high-impact areas
where we need to undertake skills
ecosystem mapping within the BRICS
nations.
The Chair will also work with other BRIC
nations to diligently track trade statistics
among the BRICS nations, identify areas
where trade performance has not met
expectations, seek to understand the cause of
the underperformance and propose solutions
to identified non-tariff barrier challenges.
The key practical outputs must lead the
BRICS nations to improve the transparency
of the trade and investment climate in the
framework of agreed obligations, create
favourable conditions for development of
mutual trade and foreign direct investment
in the BRICS-Africa nations, as well as
advance the African continent's global
economic participation with South Africa as
catalyst, thus improving the diversification of
production and exports.
Through South Africa’s Chairship,
BRICS must recommit to work with Africa
to drive industrialisation and infrastructure
development, which are critical in enabling
trade and investment on the continent.
The South African BBC is planning a
roadshow to meet with regional business
bodies on the continent and work with the
Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement's
Secretary-General’s office to explore
opportunities in the prioritised value
chains for BRICS and Africa, and intra-
Africa opportunities (agriculture and agro-
processing, automotive and vehicle parts,
pharmaceuticals, and services transportation,
logistics and distribution) for the first set of
interventions; to contribute to the acceleration
of economic growth; and facilitate access to
technology and diversification of the export
market at a business-to-business level on the
continent.
In reimagining the BBC to institutionalise
a legacy of delivery, the BBC must work
with the Think Tank Council to revisit the
proposal around the development of an
institutional research institute. The research
institute could be modelled similarly to the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development, which can find solutions
to common challenges, develop BRICS
standards, share experiences and identify
best practices to promote better policies for
better lives, distinctly suited to BRICS and
other developing countries.
Reimagining the
BRICS BUSINESS COUNCIL
to institutionalise a legacy of delivery
By Busi Mabuza
Chairperson of the South African BRICS Business Council
The 10th anniversary provides South Africa with an opportunity to reimagine the
operating model of the BRICS Business Council and assess critical opportunities
with a view to develop a meaningful trajectory.
In reimagining the BBC
to institutionalise a legacy
of delivery, the BBC
must work with the Think
Tank Council to revisit
the proposal around
the development of an
institutional research
institute.
A BRIGHTER TOMORROW
www.wosa.co.za
MAKING WINE
BETTER
The indigenous /Xam San people
of southern Africa were the
world’s first environmentalists.
They regulated their behaviour in
harmony with plant and animal
cycles, the movements of the stars
and climatic phenomena.
They saw land as a source of
life – a gift to mankind that
nourishes, supports and teaches.
In this tradition, South African
producers have recognised that
they now also have a responsibility
to farm sustainably and act as
custodians of the land, in order
to preserve it for the use of our
future generations.
About 95% of our wine is produced
in the area known as the Cape
Floral Kingdom (CFK).
One of six such plant
kingdoms in the world,
it is the smallest, yet
richest, home to over
9 600 plant species,
more than in the entire
northern hemisphere. The CFK is
one of 36 recognised biodiversity
hotspots, with 70% of the plants
found here not found anywhere
else on earth.
Sustainable Wine South Africa
(SWSA) is the alliance between
the Wine and Spirit Board (WSB),
the Integrated Production of
Wine (IPW) scheme and Wines of
South Africa (WoSA). Together
these organisations are driving
the South African wine industry’s
commitment to sustainable, eco-
friendly production.
LEADING THE WORLD IN
PRODUCTION INTEGRITY
For over two decades there has been
a strong focus on sustainability in
the South African wine industry.
The WSB, which administers the
Wine of Origin (WO) scheme, also
administers a scheme known as
IPW, which was introduced in 1998.
Producers farm according to
independently audited IPW
guidelines to prevent further loss
of habitat. These guidelines cover
minimising the use of sprays,
monitoring water usage and
recycling the maximum water
possible, as well as protecting the
natural habitat. These guidelines
are constantly improved and
independent auditors audit the
farms and cellars.
In 2010, South Africa
launched the world’s
first industry-wide
sustainability seal. Issued
by the WSB, it guarantees
a certified wine’s
environmental credentials
according to measurable, auditable
criteria. It also makes it possible for
consumers to verify information
simply by entering each seal’s
unique number on the SWSA
website. Today, some 94.3% of
wines certified in accordance
with the WO scheme are meeting
the requirements to carry the
sustainability seal.
Wosa Ad A4 - Making Wine Better 2022 FA.indd   1Wosa Ad A4 - Making Wine Better 2022 FA.indd   1 2022/12/05   12:322022/12/05   12:32
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
54

CALL TO ACTION: SOUTH AFRICA'S SECOND VOLUNTARY NATIONAL REVIEW FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2024
T
he year 2030 is rapidly
approaching, and globally, it is
clear that adequate progress
is not being made on meeting
the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). Historical and
structural impediments are well known.
The global financial crisis limited many
countries’ ability to achieve these goals.
The COVID-19 pandemic has added to
the setback and caused a regress to some of
the progress that countries have made. The
COVID-19 pandemic has disproportionately
affected low and medium human development
countries with devastating impacts on the
three dimensions of the Human Development
Index – health, education and standard of
living, including socio-economic effects.
The United Nations (UN) Development
Programme has estimated that because of
the pandemic, approximately 41 million to
169 million people could be in extreme poverty
by 2030 in countries with low and medium
levels of human development, including
approximately 20 million and 83 million women
and girls. Moreover, malnourished children
could increase by approximately 1.6 million,
totalling 57.5 million children by 2030. These
figures depict a dire picture of development.
Things cannot work as usual. Something
needs to change very soon. Therefore, there
is a need to understand better how well
countries are doing concerning reaching
the goals, how the pandemic has hindered
progress and how to accelerate progress
through and even beyond 2030.
As part of its follow-up and review
mechanisms, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development encourages member states
to "conduct regular and inclusive reviews of
progress at national and sub-national levels,
which are country-led and country-driven".
The national reviews are expected to serve
as a basis for regular reviews by the High-
Level Political Forum (HLPF), meeting under
the auspices of the UN Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC). As paragraph 84 of the
2030 Agenda stipulates, regular reviews by the
HLPF are voluntary, state-led and undertaken
by both developed and developing countries
and involve multiple stakeholders.
The voluntary national reviews (VNRs) aim
to facilitate sharing experiences, including
successes, challenges and lessons learned;
and to accelerate the implementation of the
2030 Agenda.
The VNRs also seek to strengthen policies
and institutions of governments and mobilise
multistakeholder support and partnerships to
implement the SDGs.
South Africa presented its first successful VNR
report in 2019, entitled, Empowering People
and Ensuring Inclusiveness and Equality. The
2019 VNR successfully traced South Africa’s
progress in achieving Vision 2030.
The 25 years since the end of apartheid
saw remarkable improvements in poverty,
health, education and access to basic
services. Nevertheless, daunting challenges
remain in South Africa, which is among the
most unequal countries in the world, with high
levels of poverty and unemployment and the
vulnerability of women to violence.
The National Development Plan (NDP):
Vision 2030 – “Our future, make it work”,
was adopted in 2012 as South Africa’s
development loadstar and roadmap. It
predated the 2015 adoption of the UN’s  2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the
African Union (AU) Agenda 2063 ‒ “The Africa
We Want”. The NDP has a 74% convergence
with the SDGs.
South Africa is undertaking the second
VNR assessment in 2024 to understand how
far we are in implementing the SDGs and how
we accelerate progress towards 2030. This
will invariably reveal what the impediments
are and where the opportunities for the
rejuvenation of SDG implementation lie.
Compiling the country’s progress needs
the inclusion of all stakeholders, such as
academia, members of Parliament, civil
society, governmental entities, the private
sector, women’s groups, youth, human rights
institutions and the media to contribute to
telling a whole-of-society story.
The implementation of the SDGs is a shared
responsibility and hinges on international
cooperation. It requires the mobilisation
of all three spheres of government, civil
society, businesses and academia, among
various stakeholders. It is a whole-of-society
undertaking.
The VNRs are at the core of the HLPF,
which takes place every year at the UN’s
ECOSOC. The aim is to assess and reflect
on progress towards the full implementation
of SDGs in all continents.
The reviews help in understanding the
impact of policies and programmes towards
realising sustainable development and the
considerable developmental triple challenges
that remain.
The theme for the 2024 HLPF on
Sustainable Development will be Reinforcing
the 2030 Agenda and Eradicating Poverty
in Times of Multiple Crises: The Effective
Delivery of Sustainable, Resilient and
Innovative Solutions. The HLPF in 2024 will
review in-depth:
• SDG One. End poverty in all its forms
everywhere.
• SDG Two. End hunger, achieve food
security and improved nutrition and
promote sustainable agriculture.
• SDG 13. Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impacts.
• SDG 16. Promote peaceful and
inclusive societies for sustainable
development, provide access to
justice for all and build effective,
accountable and inclusive institutions
at all levels.
• SDG 17. Strengthen the means of
implementation and revitalise the
Global Partnership for Sustainable
Development.
The emerging aspect and critical for VNRs is
the integration of environmental sustainability,
resilience and climate action in the analysis
and implementation of the SDGs.
All members of BRICS recognise the
importance of international cooperation in
achieving their SDGs. BRICS is one of the
most important actors in global governance.
Having South Africa host and chair the BRICS
Summit in 2023 under the theme, BRICS and
Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated
Growth, Sustainable Development and
Inclusive Multilateralism , offers great
opportunities for enhancing economic
cooperation, partnership and collaboration
towards achieving the SDGs. South Africa
adopts a comprehensive approach to SDG
implementation.
It sees the alignment between the SDGs,
the AU’s Agenda 2063 aspirations and the
Regional Indicative Strategic Development
Programme of the Southern African
Development Community as key to achieving
a better life for all.
The country’s NDP reflects this
convergence between these development
plans from outside and the provincial and
municipal integrated development plans.
This alignment of the development plan
presupposes an effective society-wide
monitoring and evaluation system. Just how
this alignment actually happens and how it
bears on the SDG implementation is a key
question to reflect upon.
This is a call on all South African stakeholders
to make the necessary contributions towards
the 2024 VNR to tell an inclusive South
African narrative on the implementation of the
SDGs. The implementation of the SDGs is
multidimensional.
Moreover, we call on all to collaborate more
to build back better from COVID-19 towards
the accelerated implementation of the SDGs.
Call to action:
South Africa's second Voluntary National
Review for sustainable development 2024
By Prof. Siphamandla Zondi
National Planning Commission of South Africa
The implementation of the SDGs is a shared responsibility and hinges on
international cooperation. It requires the mobilisation of all three spheres
of government, civil society, businesses and academia, among various
stakeholders. It is a whole-of-society undertaking.
The emerging aspect
and critical for VNRs
is the integration
of environmental
sustainability, resilience
and climate action
in the analysis and
implementation of the
SDGs.
South Africa adopts a comprehensive approach to SDG implementation. It sees the
alignment between the SDGs, the AU's Agenda 2063 aspirations and the Regional
Indicative Strategic Development Programme of the Southern African Development
Community as key to achieving a better life for all.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
56 57

Eastern Cape, South Africa

natural gas. Brazil is rich in biomass energy
with its output of 25% of the world's total
biomass energy in 2020.
With our natural resources, BRICS countries
are major role players in the global supply of
energy and its dynamics. BRICS countries
have developed similar energy policies to
manage energy risks. BRICS countries have
both the expertise and technologies to use
their energy resources to enhance energy
security and cooperation.
BRICS recognised these complementarities
and in 2020, adopted the Roadmap for
BRICS Energy Cooperation up to 2025,
aimed at building a strategic partnership in
energy cooperation. The roadmap is being
implemented in phases.
The first phase is the research phase,
which started under South Africa's Chairship
of BRICS in 2018 with the establishment of
the BRICS Energy Research Cooperation
Platform. The platform brings together
experts, companies and research institutes
to coordinate common interests of BRICS
in research and development of innovative
technology and policies, with seven studies
being released to date at BRICS Ministers of
Energy meetings. Last year, China presented
an additional study on the development of
renewable energy and smart grids in the
BRICS countries. This year, Russia is leading
a study on energy security. The roadmap
also established the publication of the annual
BRICS Energy Report.
During the second phase, BRICS countries
will identify the needs and challenges
to energy security and find areas where
BRICS cooperation can provide solutions.
The third phase aims at advancing mutually
Fostering partnerships with
BRICS energy investors
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS and South Africa's BRICS Sherpa
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
S
outh Africa took over
as Chair of BRICS on
1 January 2023 in a
difficult national and global
economic environment.
Globally, the conflict in
Ukraine and the West's unilateral sanctions
have battered economies that were
struggling to recover from the COVID-19
pandemic. With Russia being the world’s
third-largest oil producer, second-largest
natural gas producer and a top producer
of steel and wheat, the conflict has led
to substantial increases in food and
energy prices that have disproportionately
impacted us in the global South. As
government, we have the South African
Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan
BRICS countries are uniquely positioned to support South Africa's energy recovery.
BRICS countries contain almost half the world's population and account for
approximately 40% of the world’s energy consumption.
With our natural
resources, BRICS
countries are major role
players in the global
supply of energy and
its dynamics. BRICS
countries have developed
similar energy policies to
manage energy risks.
BRICS countries have
both the expertise and
technologies to use their
energy resources to
enhance energy security
and cooperation.
with detailed interventions to address our
energy crisis with the aim of fixing Eskom,
fundamentally transforming the electricity
sector to achieve long-term energy security
and enabling an accelerating investment in
the energy sector. It is clear that we cannot
do this alone. President Cyril Ramaphosa has
called on our BRICS partners to assist South
Africa in its recovery.
Our first priority responds to the significant
transformational changes we are making
in our economy, particularly in the energy
sector. We therefore aim to "Develop a
Partnership towards an Equitable Just
Transition". This priority aims to find solutions
to transformational energy change, which will
also improve people's lives and livelihoods in
the sectors that supported the old economy,
such as mining.
BRICS countries are uniquely positioned
to support South Africa's energy recovery.
BRICS countries contain almost half of
the world's population and account of
approximately 40% of the world’s energy
consumption. As BRICS, we are responsible
for 48% of the world's coal consumption, 22%
of the world's oil consumption and 13.5% of
the world's natural gas consumption.
While renewable energy consumption is
only 16% at the moment, BRICS renewable
energy consumption has been growing year
by year, driven by most BRICS members’
commitment to mitigating climate change.
BRICS countries are not only consumers
of energy, as all members have substantial
fossil fuels and available renewable energy
resources. BRICS members account for
40% of the world's coal reserves, 25% of the
world's natural gas reserves and 8% of the
world's oil reserves. In the renewable energy
sector, solar power from South Africa, Brazil
and India; wind power from Russia and China;
as well as biomass from Brazil, all enjoy
substantial resource advantages.
Within BRICS, China is the world's largest
coal producer with 50% of the world's output
in 2020 and India with 10%. Russia produced
12% of the world's oil and 16% of the world's
FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS WITH BRICS ENERGY INVESTORS
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
60 61

beneficial cooperation, including exchange
of best practice, use of BRICS advanced
technology as well as opportunities for trade
and investment in each other's economies. Of
course, we are not waiting for this third phase
before we work with our BRICS partners on
energy solutions.
India is already South Africa’s biggest coal
export market and brings in almost half of
our total coal revenue. China is reopening
opportunities for imports from South Africa,
following its political fallout with Australia,
previously an important coal source for them.
China has substantial oil and gas trade with
Russia, oil and gas cooperation with Brazil,
a joint natural gas pipeline project with India
as well as renewable energy trade with South
Africa. South Africa is a pioneer in the area of
clean coal, in which India and China have an
interest. The Russian state energy company,
Rosatom, has signed an agreement with
South Africa to construct small hydropower
plants in Mpumalanga as a key component of
South Africa’s energy security strategy.
Part of South Africa's response to the
energy crisis involves implementing a just
transition to a low-carbon economy. Climate
change also poses considerable risks to jobs,
businesses and the economy. South Africa is
among the most water-scarce countries in the
world, and recent events in KwaZulu-Natal
have shown that extreme weather events
such as floods are occurring more often, with
devastating impact on our infrastructure.
The response to the electricity crisis
provides an opportunity to also mitigate our
contribution to, and the risks from, climate
change and adapt to a low-carbon economy.
South Africa's Just Transition Plan aims to
significantly lower emissions of greenhouse
gases and harness investments in new energy
technologies, electric vehicles and energy-
efficient appliances. South Africa's Integrated
Resource Plan, which drives our energy policy,
therefore envisions that renewable solar and
wind energy will generate almost 25% of our
electricity by 2030. Coal, which currently
accounts for 85% of South Africa’s electricity
generation, will drop below 60% in less than a
decade. The impact on communities reliant on
coal extraction and production is an important
element of the just transition as it aims to
ensure that communities tied to high-emitting
energy industries are not left behind and are
provided with new skills and new economic
and employment opportunities.
During South Africa's Chairship of BRICS
in 2013, we established the BRICS Business
Council to strengthen and promote economic,
trade, business and investment ties among
the business communities of the BRICS
countries. The BRICS Business Council
also identifies problems and bottlenecks and
recommends solutions to BRICS.
This year, under South Africa's Chairship,
the council's Energy and Green Economy
Working Group is focussed on concrete
outputs of the just transition. The council has
developed an energy skills roadmap for South
Africa, which will be rolled out to the other
BRICS countries. The roadmap identifies the
skills available as well as the skills necessary
and identifies training programmes as well as
sponsors across the BRICS countries.
There are discussions on the possible
establishment of a BRICS African Centre of
Excellence on the Just Energy Transition,
which would support a network of researchers
focussed on technology, socio-economic,
environmental, financial and other aspects
of the just transition that would inform policy-
making in BRICS countries in collaboration
with the BRICS Energy Research Cooperation
Platform.
The question is how to identify funding for
investment in renewable energy. There is a
lot of money available globally for renewable
energy projects, with National Treasury
estimating that there are US$12 trillion
available from sources such as the Green
Climate Fund. However, developing countries
struggle to access these funds because of
the perceived risk of investing in a developing
country. South Africa's policy uncertainty
and regulatory challenges have been cited
as obstacles to South African investment
opportunities, with other funders also banning
financing and investment in coal for energy,
even if it is clean coal.
India and China are able to source their
own international finance for renewable
energy by offering their own-currency Green
Bonds known as Green Masala Bonds and
Green Panda Bonds. The Green Panda Bond
is issued by the BRICS New Development
Bank (NDB).
The NDB is a multilateral development bank
established by BRICS countries to mobilise
resources for infrastructure and sustainable
development projects. Sustainability is
fundamental to the founding principles
of the NDB and the bank aims to deliver
transformative impact to BRICS member
countries with a target of 40% of all the bank's
loans funding projects relating to mitigation
and adaption for the effects of climate change
by 2026.
South Africa and China have so far been
the leading beneficiaries of sustainable
financing from the NDB with respect to
clean and renewable energy. South Africa
is the beneficiary of 12 projects financed by
the NDB to the value of US$5.4 billion. Five
of these projects support the energy sector,
with three of those funding renewable energy
projects to the value of R13 billion.
The opportunities for BRICS to support
transformative change in our economy are
obvious. As Chair of BRICS this year, our
strategic vision is to harness our existing
mutually beneficial BRICS cooperation to
address issues of National Interest and
national concern for South Africa in a holistic
and multidisciplinary way.
The depth and strength of our BRICS
partnership allow us to bring multiple BRICS
solutions to the table, including financing,
trade, investment, industrialisation, skills
development and training, research,
development and innovation, as well as
partnerships with African countries and
leading countries of the global South.
FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS WITH BRICS ENERGY INVESTORS
As Chair of BRICS this year, our strategic vision is
to harness our existing mutually beneficial BRICS
cooperation to address issues of National Interest
and national concern for South Africa in a holistic and
multidisciplinary way.
GROW IN AFRICA’S
OPPORTUNITY CAPITAL

South Africa is an attractive destination for a growing number of diverse
investors and industries. Widely recognised as Africa’s economic
center, it boasts sophisticated and respected ﬁnancial systems and
resilient institutions to drive sustainable economic growth, and access
to vibrant local and regional markets.
Join other investors who believe in South Africa and achieve
sustainable returns in healthcare, digital economy, automotive,
chemicals, consumer goods, clothing, textile, leather and footwear,
agri-business, mining and mineral processing, forestry, transport and
industrial business. Visit www.brandsouthafrica.com/investsa/
#GrowWithSouthAfrica
BSA International Advert [7].indd   1BSA International Advert [7].indd   1 2023/04/03   09:252023/04/03   09:25
The depth and strength of our BRICS partnership allow us to bring multiple BRICS
solutions to the table, including financing, trade, investment, industrialisation, skills
development and training, research, development and innovation, as well as
partnerships with African countries and leading countries of the global South.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
62

KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa

"The depth and strength of our BRICS
partnership allow us to bring multiple
solutions to the table, including financing
trade, investment, tourism and academic
partnerships to benefit citizens in the
province,” said Minister Ndabeni-Abrahams.
“The Eastern Cape has abundant natural
resources that need to be tapped and utilised
and we hope BRICS members will assist us
in that regard,” she concluded.
imports stand at R893 million. The South
African economy absorbed U$80 million in
direct foreign investment from Brazil, and
this created 645 much-needed jobs,” said
Premier Mabuyane.
On trade with Russia, Premier Mabuyane
stated that the province’s fresh agricultural
produce had found its way to shopping
shelves in Moscow.
“Exports to Russia sit at R223 million
whereas imports fluctuated from R195 to
R39 million in 2022,” he elaborated.
Eastern Cape foreign direct investment
(FDI) from India has brought a positive
impact in Tsitsikama and Bedford, creating 69
jobs and injecting US$348 million in capital
investment.
Gqeberha is another recipient of FDI  from
India and US$18 million investment has
opened job opportunities for 172 youths who
were previously unemployed.
“As I have mentioned earlier, we share
commonalities with India; Mahindra is a
preferred truck by farmers in the Eastern
Cape; you can see them everywhere on our
roads delivering products to markets and
that’s how we feel India’s presence here
every day,” he added.
Premier Mabuyane elaborated on more
economic prosperity stories emanating from
South Africa’s involvement in the BRICS bloc
of nations.
The Eastern Cape has attracted
US$1.12 billion investment from China,
sits on 5%. This means South Africa
should advocate for lower import tariffs on
agricultural products, specifically from India
and China,” said Sihlobo.
“BRICS nations should negotiate for the
lowering of tariff imports, particularly with
China.
"South Africa must discuss this reduction
for its wines, citrus fruits and vegetables to
enter the lucrative Chinese market, which
offers 0% tariffs to countries like Australia and
Chile,” he added.
China imports only 5% of local products
such as wool, beef, nuts and grapes. Russia
accounts for 2%, which includes citrus fruits,
apples, pears, grapes as well as wines.
India and Brazil are negligible importers of
South African agricultural products and only
participate meaningfully in other sectors of
the economy.
“The BRICS Chairship presents us with
remarkable opportunities across various
sectors in all provinces, particularly here
in the Eastern Cape and I hope that those
identified will go a long way into benefitting
the population in the entire province.
creating approximately 2 200 jobs between
January 2003 and April 2023. “Our trade and
exporting opportunities, including investment
facilitations are coordinated by the Eastern
Cape Development Corporation and it is
working hand in hand with the East London
Industrial Zone (ELIDZ), Coega Development
Corporation and relevant shareholding
departments to facilitate formidable support
to investors,” he said.
ELIDZ houses 40 manufacturing
companies and is bordered by four industrial
parks in Vulindlela, Fort Jackson, Butterworth
and Dimbaza, respectively. Coega covers an
area of 9 003 hectares and is demarcated
into 14 zones with a combined investment
value of US$12 billion.
Agriculture investment specialist Wandile
Sihlobo recently gave a summary of the
benefits of BRICS membership to the
country’s agricultural sector:
“US$764 million has been spent by BRICS
countries on South African agricultural
imports despite the country being a small
player in that regard. China imports amount
to 67%, Russia 16%, India 12% and Brazil
BRICS benefits
Eastern Cape economy
T
he Minister for Small
Business Development,
Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams,
held an important
international BRICS
roadshow on 20 June 2023
at the International Convention Centre in East
London to promote economic partnership,
development and growth between the
companies from the bloc and their partners
in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.
The purpose of the roadshow was to
raise awareness about the importance of
the political as well as business alignment
created by South Africa’s involvement in
BRICS and deliberate on how it is going
to play a meaningful role in propelling the
economic growth of the nation in partnership
with its fellow member states.
 “To achieve inclusive economic
growth for its people as well as that of the
continent, South Africa needs to claim its
place around the business table and be
able to address all societal issues such as
poverty, unemployment and inequality as
well as a myriad of economic challenges
like the current energy crisis, food and
water insecurities,” said Minister Ndabeni-
Abrahams in her opening speech.
This objective is strongly complemented
by the exponential and accelerator growth
potential, which BRICS engagement has
delivered to the country and its neighbours.
South Africa aims to utilise its Chairship
of BRICS in 2023 to vigorously pursue the
potential for growing trade and investment,
as well as intra-African trade and investment,
while advancing the benefits of the African
Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA).
The AfCFTA creates a predictable
environment for investments by BRICS
partners, particularly in infrastructure
development across the continent.
Individually, the BRICS countries all have
active partnerships in cooperation, trade and
development on the African continent.
Under this priority, South Africa will be
looking at building a partnership between
BRICS and Africa to unlock mutually
beneficial opportunities for increased trade,
investment and infrastructure development.
According to Minister Ndabeni-Abrahams,
total South African trade with BRICS
countries stands at R702 billion, a significant
increase from R487 billion in 2017.
The BRICS New Development Bank has
to date approved 12 projects, valued around
US$5.4 billion, to improve service-delivery
issues.
“The Buffalo City Metropolitan Council
(BCM) benefits directly form BRICS and
recently sent 20 students to Jinhua City
in China on a business studies exchange
programme,” said BCM Mayor, Princess
Faku.
“BCM is strategically located as a
distinguished city, which means we are open
for business, hence we have partnered with
Transnet to expand infrastructure to increase
volumes at the port and accommodate bigger
passenger liners at the harbour in the coming
10 years,” added Faku.
“The Eastern Cape welcomes this
opportunity brought by BRICS and the
Department of Small Business Development,
led by Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams,”
said Premier Oscar Mabuyane.
He further stated that the roadshow was a
pre-awareness event to the main summit set
for August 2023.
“We are using this opportunity to explore
trade and investment opportunities emanating
from South Africa’s participation in this new
and developing economic bloc.
"Brazil and South Africa’s balance of trade
currently is sitting on R740 million, the total of
exports has gone up to R153 million whereas
BRICS BENEFITS EASTERN CAPE ECONOMY
The BRICS New
Development Bank has
to date approved 12
projects, valued around
US$5,4 billion, to improve
service-delivery issues.
"The depth and strength
of our BRICS partnership
allow us to bring multiple
solutions to the table,
including financing trade,
investment, tourism and
academic partnerships
to benefit citizens in the
provinces," said Minister
Ndabeni-Abrahams.
Total South African trade with BRICS countries stands at R702 billion, a significant
increase from R487 billion in 2017.
By the Department of Small Business Development
BRICS BENEFITS EASTERN CAPE ECONOMY
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
66 67

declarations of successive BRICS summits.
The theme of the 2023 Ministerial Meeting
will be BRICS and Africa: Enabling Inclusive,
Sustainable Development in a Changing
World through Knowledge Partnerships.
South Africa’s Minister of Higher Education,
Science and Innovation, Dr Blade Nzimande,
host of the meeting, chose this theme to
ensure alignment with the South African
Government’s overall theme for chairing
BRICS in 2023: BRICS and Africa: Partnership
for Mutually Accelerated Growth, Sustainable
Development and Inclusive Multilateralism,
an objective in which the achievement of
science diplomacy has a crucial role to play.
The theme chosen by Minister Nzimande
also directly seeks to translate into action
Article 2 (d) of the BRICS Memorandum
of Understanding on Cooperation in STI,
which sets the objective to “promote, where
appropriate, joint BRICS science, technology
and innovation partnerships with other
strategic actors in the developing world”.
It is within this context that under Minister
Nzimande’s leadership, South Africa is
proposing to BRICS partners new science
diplomacy initiatives, which will add significant
strategic value to the existing partnership.
This notably includes a first scoping of
opportunities for appropriate participation by
other African countries in BRICS collaboration
initiatives such as the Framework Programme.
Other initiatives South Africa is proposing
in 2023, includes the organisation of a
first exchange between BRICS entities
tasked with providing their governments
with science and innovation policy advice,
as well as exploring how best to advance
BRICS collaboration with regard to research,
innovation and training in the responsible use
of natural medicine.
South Africa is privileged in 2023 to lead
a science diplomacy partnership, which has
over more than a decade actively sought
and indeed has succeeded to translate
policy jargon into concrete initiatives, firmly
establishing BRICS cooperation as science
diplomacy best practice into action.
Mobilising diplomacy for science, supporting
science in diplomacy and harnessing science
for diplomacy are important steps towards
creating a better South Africa, in a better
Africa, in a better world.
in practice, the BRICS partnership has
established more than 20 thematic working
groups and other fora to enable regular
exchanges and mutual learning in priority
science and technology disciplines. An
intensive annual work programme sees
meetings taking place almost every month,
either in-person or on digital platforms,
bringing BRICS experts together in disciplines
as diverse as astronomy, marine and
polar science, nanotechnology, photonics,
biotechnology, genomics or neuroscience, to
name but a few.
The establishment of the BRICS GRAIN
(Global Research Advanced Infrastructure
Network) platform also numbers among the
“diplomacy for science” successes. Research
infrastructures are facilities, equipment,
instruments or digital resources required to
support the scientific enterprise.
Large-scale or “mega” research
infrastructures are expensive to construct
and operate and international collaboration
is thus essential for countries to secure
optimal access to them for their scientific
communities. This is exactly the cooperation
the BRICS GRAIN platform seeks to promote
by facilitating transnational access for BRICS
researchers to national infrastructures
located in other BRICS countries.
using Earth observation technology-based
assessments to understand the impacts and
consequences of climate change; developing
systematic responses using the WEF (water,
energy, food) nexus approach for a cross-
sectoral management of climate change; and
mitigating risks to low-lying coastal socio-
ecological systems.
Encouraged by India’s strategic leadership
of the research and innovation agenda
during its G20 Presidency, under the theme
of Research and Innovation for an Equitable
Society, the BRICS partners will also continue
to promote the role of “science in diplomacy”,
in other multilateral fora, enabling notably
concrete progress towards the achievement
of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The BRICS partnership also achieved
marked success in unleashing the potential
of “science for diplomacy”, especially by
investing in that most precious of resources,
relations between people.
For several years now, the annual BRICS
Young Scientists Forum brings together
young and emerging researchers from BRICS
countries with the aim of fostering enduring
partnerships and above all, friendships, to
last a career and a lifetime.
It is an investment in our future, which has
in recent years been broadened to include
the participation of young entrepreneurs,
competing for the now prestigious annual
BRICS Young Innovators Prize.
In 2023, the BRICS Young Scientists Forum
will take place in Gqeberha, in the Eastern
Cape, on the occasion of South Africa’s
hosting of the BRICS STI Ministerial Meeting,
and will see the participation of more than
100 young BRICS scientists debating topical
themes such as the role of science in shaping
the future of society.
The 2023 BRICS Young Innovators
Prize will see dynamic competition with
entrepreneurs presenting their innovations,
which can enhance the competitiveness
of the BRICS economies and unlock new
sources of growth such as in the digital
economy.
The relationships to be fostered on South
Africa’s Indian Ocean seaboard will be an
additional strategic investment in long-term
BRICS solidarity and cooperation, also in the
political, economic and social spheres, as
evidenced by the consistent recognition of
the importance of collaboration in STI in the
The BRICS partnership has also concertedly
joined forces to enhance the role of “science
in diplomacy” as perhaps best illustrated by
cooperation during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Shortly after the outbreak of the pandemic,
in a matter of weeks, the BRICS partners
agreed to mobilise the BRICS Framework
Programme to enable BRICS scientific
cooperation as a resource for the fight
against COVID-19.   Following a special call
for proposals, the programme funded 12
projects, through which BRICS collaborations
made decisive contributions to enrich global
knowledge resources for the fight against
COVID-19.
The BRICS Framework Programme
COVID-19 Project portfolio responded to
strategic objectives such as the development
of new technologies and tools for diagnosing
COVID-19; the development of new
vaccines and therapeutic drugs; genomic
sequencing of the virus; and epidemiological
studies, including mathematical modelling;
the use of digital technologies, especially
Artificial Intelligence in drug and vaccine
development, and in supporting public
health infrastructure and systems; as well
as the understanding of the co-incidence of
the SARS-COV-2 virus with comorbidities,
especially tuberculosis. These projects also
made valuable contributions to bolstering
global preparedness to respond to future
pandemics. In this regard, the leadership of
China’s Ministry of Science and Technology
to enable the successful launch of the
BRICS Vaccine Research and Development
Centre in 2022 (a concept first proposed by
South Africa in 2018), should especially be
acknowledged.
With the need for a concerted global
response to climate change, based on
best available science ever more pressing,
including to inform the outcomes of the
forthcoming United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change’s COP28,
the BRICS Framework Programme is again
responding in a timely manner to ensure
science plays its required role in diplomacy.
In August 2023, the funding agencies will
be launching a dedicated call for proposals,
focussed on supporting BRICS cooperation
in climate change adaptation and mitigation.
The call will cover themes such as building
resilience through local scale adaptation
and adaptive responses at catchment scale;
BRICS Cooperation:
Science diplomacy best practice In action
S
cience diplomacy has
become one of the
buzzwords of our time in
foreign- as well as science-
policy circles. But what does
“science diplomacy” mean in
practice? Most commentators and experts
now agree on a triple definition, which
proposes that science diplomacy includes
the use of “diplomacy for science”, the role of
“science in diplomacy” as well as the potential
to use “science for diplomacy”.
“Diplomacy for science” entails the use of
diplomatic channels and instruments, such
as the negotiation of intergovernmental
agreements, to enable international
cooperation in science. “Science in diplomacy”
involves the critical role of scientific advice to
inform and guide international collaboration
(diplomatic) efforts in responding to global
challenges, such as climate change.
“Science for diplomacy” relates to the use
of international scientific cooperation to build
longer-term global solidarity and strengthen
multilateralism, bringing people and countries
together around shared objectives, bridging
conflicts and divides.
The BRICS partners in 2015, in Brasilia
under Brazil’s leadership, concluded a
Memorandum of Understanding to establish
a formal BRICS cooperation framework in
science, technology and innovation (STI),
concluding a process initiated during South
Africa’s first tenure as BRICS Chair in 2013.
South Africa’s hosting of the 2023 BRICS
Summit is therefore an ideal opportunity to
assess the impact of BRICS cooperation in
STI over the past decade.
It is an analysis, which will reveal that BRICS
cooperation, viewed through the lenses of all
three dimensions of science diplomacy (as
described above) achieved important and
concrete results, advancing “diplomacy for
science”, “science in diplomacy” and “science
for diplomacy”.
The most important achievement of BRICS
cooperation in “diplomacy for science” is
undoubtedly the successful negotiation and
then implementation of the BRICS Framework
Programme for STI. This programme
brings together 15 national research and
innovation funding agencies of the BRICS
partners to jointly select and then fund
cooperation projects across various scientific
disciplines. Since its inception, and through
five rounds of competitive calls for proposals,
the programme has already funded more
than 150 projects (and significantly every
project includes the participation of at least
three different countries from the BRICS
partnership).
It is testimony to the excellent relations
between the respective BRICS ministries
responsible for science, that the funding
agencies implementing the BRICS Framework
Programme could rapidly agree on what
could potentially have been contentious
aspects related to the implementation of the
programme, such as the evaluation process
for the selection of projects or the rules for
intellectual property management. In this
regard, special mention should be made
of the outstanding support provided by the
Framework Programme Secretariat hosted by
the Russian Foundation for Basic Research.
The partnership has great ambitions for the
Framework Programme with a new call for
proposals being planned for 2024, to fund
flagship projects in strategic themes with
significantly increased budgets to be availed
by all BRICS partners.
Throughout history, science has always
progressed when humanity expanded the
frontiers of knowledge through the sharing
of experience and expertise across national
borders. Putting “diplomacy for science”
Throughout history,
science has always
progressed when
humanity expanded the
frontiers of knowledge
through the sharing of
experience and expertise
across national borders.
The most important achievement of BRICS cooperation in “diplomacy for science”
is undoubtedly the successful negotiation and then implementation of the BRICS
Framework Programme for STI.
By Daan du Toit
Deputy Director-General: International Cooperation and Resources
Department of Science and Innovation
BRICS COOPERATION: SCIENCE DIPLOMACY BEST PRACTICE IN ACTION
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
68 69

TRANSFORM YOUR WORLD
www.baic.co.za
PROUDLY SPONSORED BY:
BOOK A TEST DRIVE TODAY
REVOLUTIONARY SPORTS STYLING
EXCEPTIONAL PERFORMANCE
SMART TECHNOLOGY
UNCOMPROMISING SAFETY
HUMAN-CENTRED COMFORT
STYLISH + SPORTY
STRONG + ECONOMICAL
THOUGHTFUL + HIGH-TECH
REASSURING + RELIABLE
SPACIOUS + ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY
BAIC Official Vehicle Partner
for BRICS SUMMIT 2023
SOUTH AFRICA

cooperation and working arrangements for
the year.
The Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor, hosted the
meeting of BRICS ministers of foreign affairs
and international relations on 1 June 2023 in
Cape Town. The mid-term meeting provided
an opportunity for BRICS foreign ministers to
reflect on regional and global developments.
S
outh Africa, as the Chair of
BRICS in 2023, is hosting
the XV BRICS Summit from
22 to 24 August in Sandton,
Johannesburg, under the
theme, BRICS and Africa:
Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive
Multilateralism.
The build-up to the summit consisted of many
sectoral meetings hosted by South Africa,
among others, the meetings of the BRICS
Sherpas/Sous-Sherpas.
The first BRICS Sherpa and Sous-Sherpa
Meeting of 2023 was held at Mabula Game
Lodge in Limpopo in February. The meeting
served to brief South Africa’s BRICS partners
on South Africa’s priorities for BRICS
WHAT IS A SHERPA?WHAT IS A SHERPA?
In the governmental and diplomatic arena, a Sherpa
is usually a senior official, often a career diplomat
who has been appointed by a head of state or
government. They are tasked with being their
countries' representatives in multilateral organisations.
Sherpa is the English modification of a Tibetan word
meaning "dweller in an eastern country", originally
referring to the Sherpa people; Asian nomads who
migrated from Eastern Tibet to Nepal. The word is
also used in the personal names of the ethnic group.
What is a Sherpa?
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS and South Africa's BRICS Sherpa
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
The role of the Sherpas can be seen as "informal" in nature, but in terms of enhancing
cooperation and consensus-building, it is a critical one.
Minister Pandor, as the Chair of the BRICS
Ministerial Meeting, continued with the
policy of inclusive engagement by inviting 15
foreign ministers from Africa and the global
South to the Friends of BRICS Meeting, held
on 2 June 2023.
The ministerial meetings were preceded
by a meeting of Sherpas and Sous-Sherpas
from 29 to 30 May 2023.
A key element in all these interactions
undertaken to prepare for the annual BRICS
Summit is the Sherpa. Often their role is not
publicised and not many know their key role/
function.
What is a Sherpa?
The role of the Sherpas can be seen as
"informal" in nature, but in terms of enhancing
cooperation and consensus-building, it is a
critical one.
In the governmental and diplomatic arena,
a Sherpa is usually a senior official, often a
career diplomat who has been appointed by a
head of state or government. They are tasked
with being their countries' representatives in
multilateral organisations or fora. This is in
respect of preparatory work and coordination
concerning their countries' activities and
events, linguistic inputs, as well as positions
on particular issues within a particular
organisation such as the G20, BRICS or
IBSA.
The Sherpas guide their principals in terms
of policy, agenda-setting for cooperation
and the drafting of resolutions, declarations,
communiqués or statements. This entails
decisions taken at high-level meetings and/
or summits.
Historical background of the term
In attempting to trace the origins of the term
“Sherpa”, The Ascent of Sherpa by Nancy
Friedman (2013) refers to the momentous
historical milestone of the first humans to
summit Mount Everest, the highest peak in
the world. The ascent of Edmund Hillary from
New Zealand and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay
of Nepalese descent, on the morning of 29
May 1953 to the summit of Everest brought
acclaim to the Sherpa clan.
Sherpa is the English modification of a
Tibetan word meaning "dweller in an eastern
country", originally referring to the Sherpa
people; Asian nomads who migrated from
Eastern Tibet to Nepal. The word is also used
in the personal names of the ethnic group.
According to Bruce Foreman's The
Sherpa Cheat Sheet: 9 Things you were
Embarrassed to Ask (2017), the word is
pronounced "shar-wa" by the Sherpa clan.
Sherpas climb and assist expeditions up
the Himalayan Mountains. They prepare
camps, the load and meals and they chart
the course for the professional climbers. In
essence, they conduct the risky part of the
enterprise by running ahead and setting up
the ropes and ladders to ensure the safety
of their clients and to enable them to reach
the summit.
Before going further with the explanation
of the term "Sherpa" within the realm of
diplomacy, it is important to understand the
origins of another term to which Sherpa is
often connected, i.e. summit. The Oxford
English Dictionary defines a summit as
"the highest point of the hill or mountain".
Within diplomacy and politics, the term was
reportedly first used by Sir Winston Churchill.
(The Palgrave Macmillan Dictionary of
Diplomacy, 2003). This was during the Cold
War, in order to describe a face-to-face
meeting between heads of state/government,
especially at a time when these meetings
were a rare occurrence. Although the term
“Sherpa” has been used in various contexts,
such as in fashion or business, it has equally
been used in the diplomatic field, where the
symbolism of "reaching the top" is more
pronounced. Its origins in this regard date
back to the 1970s (Michael Quinion, World
Wide Words, 2005). Thomas P Thornton
stated that former President Jimmy Carter
was referring to Ambassador Henry Owen
in a self-effacing statement in a letter, made
in respect of the latter’s contribution as a
Sherpa in the Group of Seven (G7) Summit
preparations in 1977. He wrote: “You did a
superb job on the Summit meeting in London.
Your tremendous talents really paid off.
Thank you for letting me take credit for your
good work.” (Alan Beattie et al, Sherpas are
the Unsung Heroes at the G7 Negotiations,
2016)
The initiative of “Sherpas” preparing the
work ahead of the G7 Summit was a result
of the former French President Valéry
Giscard d'Estaing, who invited the leaders of
Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom
and the United States to meet in 1975. He
invited the leaders to appoint representatives
(from the foreign and finance ministries, as
well as note-takers) to meet ahead of time
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
73

therefore, there are cross-cutting issues that
necessitate the Sherpas referring technical
issues to other officials and related agencies
at Head Office. They have to be agile and
keep learning as new trends and issues are
introduced as subsets of the agenda.
A study conducted by Emmanuel Mourlon-
Druol et al (2014), providing a comparison
of the G7/8 Sherpas who held the role from
1975 to 1991 (over 17 summits), provides
interesting insights into the characteristics
of a Sherpa, revealing the common traits as
well as differences. The results of this study,
published in International Summitry and
Global Governance. The Rise of the G7 and
the European Council, 1974-1991, highlighted
the following. The G7 Sherpas are typically
males in their mid-50s, who are mostly civil
servants. The majority have a diplomatic
background, with some experience working
in an international organisation, while others
may have expertise in economics or hail from
academia. Their level of education is usually
at a doctorate level with a strong research
focus. Their tenure as Sherpas often extends
for a few summits, therefore the continuity
and their performance are well regarded.
It is now clear to see that, just as Sir
Edmund Hillary (who was a professional and
leader in his own right) entrusted Sherpa
Tenzing Norgay to guide his expedition,
heads of state/government of multilateral
fora such as BRICS, the G20, the G7, and
to some extent, the European Union in
the case of “Brexit”, entrust Sherpas to be
their "personal representatives". Norgay
was knowledgeable and experienced and
assisted in the preparations of the journey.
He would take the risks and safeguard his
client.
The Sherpas in these fora are tasked
with a Tenzing Norgay-esque role within the
arena of politics and diplomacy. Their role
is that of laying the ground in a way that
allows their principals to be successful in
their "summits" or talks, without the Sherpas
themselves taking any of the credit for the
success achieved. Their existence and goal
are unequivocally one of solid preparatory
support and are indeed invaluable.
WHAT IS A SHERPA?
Although the role of the Sherpa is similar in most of
the multilateral organisations, the differences pertain
to what mandate or level of authority/decision-making
they are given by their Head of State/Government.
for “fire-side chats” in order to prepare for
the “Summit”. The aim was to cut out the
“bureaucracy and formality” and to ensure a
relatively nimble decision-making apparatus
(Alan Beattie et al, 2016).
According to Friedman, the term Sous-
Sherpa (“Sous”: a French word meaning
“under”) refers to the official/s who work
closely with the Sherpa ‒ subject matter
experts in finance/economics or diplomacy
who report to the Sherpa. The word was
informally used first by the European Union
(taken from the term “Sous-chef”).
The profile of a Sherpa
Although the role of the Sherpa is similar in
most of the multilateral organisations, the
differences pertain to what mandate or level
of authority/decision-making they are given
by their Head of State/Government. This
renders their roles different from country to
country and organisation to organisation.
Several articles noted the following about
what their role entails: among others, that
Sherpas "prepare leaders to scale a summit";
have a "peculiarly discreet and yet influential
role"; and are "senior officials working behind
the scenes [who] do much of the heavy
lifting".
The Sherpas also highlight possible
divergence and try to find convergence.
Therefore, they assist in resolving the
contentious issues ahead of the high-level
meetings. This eases the discussions at the
level of the heads of state/government when
they eventually meet at the “Summit”. The
Sherpas meet several times a year before
and after summits.
A Japanese G7 Sherpa is quoted as saying
that the Sherpas need to bond, therefore
their meeting locations “away from the
capital” create the right ambience for cordial
discussions.
This rests on the fact that they spend much
of their time negotiating face to face for days
at a time and, as such, a sense of teamwork,
fraternity and solidarity is necessary to
progress in their work and to ensure that
all sensitive differences are worked out in
advance to ensure consensus and success,
while still protecting their nations’ sovereign
interests and status.
The BRICS Sherpas/Sous-Sherpas work
according to a Terms of Reference document
that outlines their levels of engagement
and sets the norms and standards for their
cooperation. The Sherpas meet several times
a year; at least on five different occasions.
The first meeting is usually an introduction
by the host country chairing in the particular
year. Conversely, the last meeting concludes
proceedings for the host country and a
handover is put into play for the next host
country.
The main Sherpas’ meeting is the meeting
preceding the BRICS Summit. They also
meet on the margins of the United Nations
General Assembly in New York ahead of the
BRICS Foreign Ministers’ Meeting there.
Sherpas also meet prior to the Informal
Meeting of BRICS Leaders on the margins of
the Group of Twenty (G20) Summit.
The engagements in the G20 consist of two
channels: "a Sherpa track" and a "Finance
track". The former is led by the foreign
affairs/international relations ministries of the
respective member states, while the latter is
driven by the finance or economic ministries.
The various member states have one Sherpa
each. Depending on which country is the
"rotational Chair", the frequency of their
meetings is the aforementioned five times a
year, including the meeting prior to the G20
Summit. The Sherpas work on technical and
policy matters related to development, and
the Sherpa track itself consists of working
groups. The two tracks then meet to finalise
the G20 Communiqué that will be issued by
the leaders as the outcome document at the
G20 Summit. Like the BRICS Sherpas, the
G20 Sherpas coordinate inputs regularly and
meet in various locations within the Chair’s
country to deliberate on the priorities and
objectives for the year and the implementation
thereof.
In both instances, the agendas of the two
groupings have grown substantially and,
Their role is that of laying the ground in a way
that allows their principals to be successful in
their "summits" or talks, without the Sherpas
themselves taking any of the credit for the
success achieved. Their existence and goal are
unequivocally one of solid preparatory support
and are indeed invaluable.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
74

Free State, South Africa

the age of 35, yet we have to do more
to ensure youth empowerment and to
advance gender parity, particularly in
the male-dominated area of trade law
and trade policy.
• On Rules of Origin, for the first time
in the economic history of Africa, we
have reached 88.3% convergence.
In the almost 5 000 products that are
traded in Africa, we now have a single
set of rules for trade in 88.3% of those
products, which has the potential to
position our continent as an appealing
investment destination and for
accelerated industrial development.
The comprehensive roadmap for
implementation of the theme for this year
relies significantly on all AU organs, agencies
and RECs for successful implementation and
to enable us to transition from negotiations
to practical steps that have to be taken for
implementation of the AfCFTA.
I have not mentioned the challenges that
we shall confront along the way, because the
challenges that we certainly shall confront
must not define our resolve to succeed. As
we take a positive step towards reaching
the milestones of the Abuja Treaty, we must
expect that economic and market integration
is a difficult yet worthwhile task.
I conclude with the words of the late
Comrade President Thomas Isodore
Sankara, “We must dare to invent the future”.
We must dare to invent the economy and
future of the Africa that we want.
Where there is strong
collaboration among all
organs and specialised
agencies of the African
Union and regional
economic communities,
accelerating the
implementation of the
AfCFTA will produce the
results we all desire.
“We
must
dare to
invent the
future”
By Wamkele Mene
Secretary-General, African Continental
Free Trade Area Secretariat
T
he African Union (AU)
theme of the year for 2023
is Acceleration of AfCFTA
Implementation.
The theme coincides with
the 60th commemoration
of the establishment of the Organisation of
African Unity (OAU) in the historic city of
Addis Ababa. Sixty years after our founding
mothers and fathers established the OAU,
the African Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) is a tool to be deployed by the AU
to position Africa to adequately respond to
the challenges confronting our continent, the
public health crisis from which the continent
is emerging and the food insecurity crisis
that is attributable to the current geopolitical
context.
In the area of public health, the concluded
Protocol on Intellectual Property Rights,
which the assembly adopted recently, is an
The comprehensive roadmap for implementation of the
theme for this year, relies significantly on
all AU organs, agencies and RECs for successful
implementation and to enable us to transition from
negotiations to practical steps that have to be taken for
implementation of the AfCFTA.
important instrument that has the potential to
address Africa’s public health and industrial
development imperatives. To address the
food insecurity crisis, the Council of Ministers
of Trade resolved to develop a strategy for
boosting intra-Africa trade in agricultural
products; an important outcome of a
recent meeting of the Council of Ministers
Responsible for Trade that was held in
Gaborone, Botswana.
The recent conclusion of the Protocol on
Investment, Competition and Intellectual
Property Rights provides a legal basis to
anchor an effective and comprehensive “one
African market” and will be an accelerator for
reaching the aspirations of Agenda 2063: The
Africa We Want.
Having concluded the Protocol on
Investment, Competition and Intellectual
Property Rights in this year of accelerated
implementation of the AfCFTA, we are on
track to conclude the Protocol on Digital Trade
and the Protocol on Women and Youth in
Trade. The Protocol on Digital Trade, among
other important objectives, is set to broaden
access to trade – particularly for small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that are
led by women and young entrepreneurs –
thereby addressing the critical imperative of
digital financial inclusion and the need for
more investment in such inclusion.
The acceleration of the implementation
of the AfCFTA will not only be in the context
of concluding the establishment of the legal
construct, it will also be in accelerating
commercially meaningful new market access
across the AfCFTA market. In this regard, the
Council of Ministers of Trade congratulated
and welcomed the Market Access Offer or
Tariff Offer that the Southern African Customs
Union recently submitted; an important step
in our desire to boost intra-Africa trade and
create commercially meaningful opportunities
for our private sector, particularly SMEs that
are led by women and young Africans.
Where there is strong collaboration among
all organs and specialised agencies of the
AU and regional economic communities
(RECs), accelerating the implementation of
the AfCFTA will produce the results we all
desire. In accelerating the implementation
of the AfCFTA in accordance with the theme
of this year, we must leverage on Africa’s
development finance institutions such as our
strategic partners Afreximbank and AfDB, to
ensure that we build on the success recorded
thus far.
Working together with the AU family,
Afreximbank and AfDB, we have achieved
significant success since February 2020.
Under extremely difficult circumstances
caused by the pandemic and the challenging
geo-economic context of our time, we have
been able to make significant and meaningful
advancements:
• We established the AfCFTA
Adjustment Fund, which through
Afreximbank, already has a US$1-
billion capitalisation and more will
be raised to enable all AfCFTA state
parties to benefit from the AfCFTA.
• We commenced commercially
meaningful trade under the Guided
Trade Initiative, where eight countries:
Ghana, Egypt, Tanzania, Rwanda,
Kenya, Mauritius, Cameroon and
Tunisia, traded goods under the
preferential rules of the AfCFTA. The
most important aspect of the Guided
Trade Initiative was in demonstrating
that beyond enhanced trade flows
in Africa – which is important –
the AfCFTA can deliver inclusive
benefits and opportunities for the
marginalised. The tea that was
exported from Kenya to Ghana was
produced by small-holder farmers,
whom the Government of Kenya has
organised into cooperatives for export
under the AfCFTA. A remarkable story
of inclusivity in trade; a remarkable
story of Africa demonstrating that
trade does not have to be intrinsically
a zero-sum game.
• Working with Afreximbank, we
launched the Pan-African Payments
and Settlement System (PAPSS)
to facilitate trade in local currency
under the AfCFTA. The immediate
beneficiaries of the PAPSS are
SMEs that are led by women and
young entrepreneurs who seek to
take advantage of a market whose
combined GDP is projected to be
close to US$7 trillion by the year
2035.
• In record time, we established a fully
functional secretariat that has 50/50
gender parity, that has as many men
as it has women, including in the most
senior leadership positions, and that
has language and representation of
all of Africa's region. Some 35% of
the staff of the Secretariat are under
“WE MUST DARE TO INVENT THE FUTURE”
As we take a positive
step towards reaching
the milestones of the
Abuja Treaty, we must
expect that economic
and market integration is
a difficult yet worthwhile
task.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
79

i
Investors should seize the economic and business opportunities to establish a commercial presence in South Africa, said Secretary-General of the
African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Secretariat, Wamkele Mene.
Mene was addressing delegates from varying industries in South Africa and across the world at the fifth South Africa Investment Conference
(SAIC) on Thursday, 13 April 2023.
Mene outlined the value proposition for the AfCFTA Agreement, saying that it will allow investors to gain access to a single market, which is
projected to grow to 1.7 billion people and US$6.7 trillion in consumer and business spending by 2030.
“By 2050, the continent will be home to 2.5 billion people. The largest working force in the world by 2050 will be in Africa. At that point, estimates
are that consumer spending and business spending in Africa will be in excess of US$16 trillion.
“This is an opportunity that our continent and our investors should not miss. It is of course expected that there will be challenges but I encourage
everyone to look at Africa with a long-term view of investing and to see your returns in your investments,” Mene said at the gathering held at the
Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg.
According to World Bank projections, by implementing the trade agreement, Africans will have an opportunity to lift 100 million people out of
poverty, 60 million Africans out of abject poverty and the rest out of moderate poverty.
Increasing Africa’s GDP
The implementation of the agreement is also expected to contribute US$450 million combined gross domestic product (GDP) to Africa’s GDP
and increase wages by close to 9%.
“We project that the most immediate beneficiaries will be small, micro and medium enterprises (SMMEs) that are led by women; this is why
this agreement is so important for the future of our continent,” he said.
The AfCFTA Agreement seeks to eliminate trade barriers and boost intra-Africa trade. In particular, it is to advance trade in value-added
production across all service sectors of the African economy.
The AfCFTA will contribute to establishing regional value chains in Africa, enabling investment and job creation. The practical implementation
of the AfCFTA has the potential to foster industrialisation, job creation and investment, thus enhancing the competitiveness of Africa in the
medium to long term.
“The longstanding ambition of the African Union (AU) is that one day, our continent must be a common one. That is why we recently concluded
protocols on investment protection with some ratifications to be done on international property rights and competition, which are so critical for
the economic integration in Africa,” Mene said.
Protocol
Heads of state and the ministers of trade are expected to conclude two additional legal instruments that include a protocol on digital trade and
a protocol on women and youth in trade.
“The Protocol on Digital Trade represents a very unique opportunity for Africa to create digital economy jobs and enhance digital innovation.
It will also address the imperative of inclusion, particularly the inclusion of SMMEs led by women and young entrepreneurs.
“With the direction of the heads of state, the Protocol on Women and Youth and Trade should enable us to move beyond aspirations for
inclusion and present concrete commercially meaningful opportunities for women and young people through this protocol,” he said.
Manufacturing
In 2019, Africa imported US$16 billion worth of pharmaceuticals and it presents an opportunity to enhance the local production in pharmaceuticals.
Mene noted that the continent had a challenge of over-reliance on imports for pharmaceuticals.
“In 2020, the challenge with the onset of the pandemic has proven to be an opportunity for job creation in Africa and an opportunity to address
Africa’s reliance on the protocol for international property rights,” he said.
In July 2022, BioNTech established the first mRNA Vaccine Manufacturing Facility in Rwanda with plans for vaccine manufacturing that span
the continent and includes South Africa, Ghana and Senegal.
“South Africa has a very strong manufacturing sector. By the year 2035, Africa shall require five billion units of vehicles … this is an opportunity
for us to include other countries in Africa who want to be part of the auto value chain in manufacturing components and part of trade under the
AfCFTA.
“The agreement also presents an opportunity for countries that are producers of lithium. Three of them, Zambia, Zimbabwe and the Democratic
Republic of Congo, are on the continent. They should be in the top five of producers in the world so that when the transition from combustion
engines to electric vehicles takes place, Africa takes the lead in the production of vehicles that are powered by lithium engines,” Mene said.
Ministers of trade have concluded 88.3% of the rules of origins for trading in Africa. However, the textile and auto sectors remain unresolved
by the ministers.
“We have operationalised a protocol that will assist in resolving disputes that might arise and will be adjudicated by a competent and impartial
panel of experts that will be nominated by the private sector,” he said.
Although there are safeguards in place to mitigate challenges, Mene acknowledged that challenges that might arise include institutional
capacity at national level, the cost of trade finance, which has to be brought down, and the lack of trade support of infrastructure.
“We will have to confront [this] as we implement the agreement. It is a very ambitious agreement, wide in scope and ambitious in the direction
of economic integration of the continent. The fact that 47 countries have ratified the agreement symbolises strong commitment on their part,”
Mene said.
SAnews.gov.za
“WE MUST DARE TO INVENT THE FUTURE”
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
80

By Teniola Tayo
Institute for Security Studies Consultant and Principal Adviser, Aloinett Adviser
T
he landmark African
Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) aims to increase
Africans’ prosperity through
more intra-African trade by
eliminating tariff and non-tariff
barriers. There is, however, the question of
the production of the goods and services that
will be traded.
Scaling up production will require an
injection of local and foreign investment
into African industries. The increased focus
on investment is a logical next step in the
AfCFTA’s implementation process.
In February, a draft protocol on AfCFTA
investment was submitted to the African
Union Heads of State Summit. The protocol
is part of the second phase of the free trade
area negotiations. It aims to facilitate and
protect intra-African investment and improve
the attractiveness of the single market to
foreign direct investment.
Among other things, the draft protocol
provides for a Pan-African Investment Agency
to help coordinate investment promotion by
AfCFTA member states. To ensure its success,
lessons from previous attempts must be
examined.
Linked to the goal of scaling up African
industries is a recognition of the role of regional
value chains in a free trade area. The AfCFTA
Secretariat has identified some key value
chains to prioritise for their export potential.
These include automotives, textiles and
apparel, pharmaceuticals and cocoa, among
others.
These regional networks are one of the
solutions to the anticipated competition among
AfCFTA member states in developing specific
sectors. The clashes between national industrial
policies and the AfCFTA’s aspirations are
already proving a challenge to the negotiations.
PROMOTING INVESTMENT TO POWER AFRICA’S SINGLE MARKET
Given that regional value chains may require
cross-border investment, a coordinated
approach is ideal. Such regional investment
promotion activities are often carried out by
investment agencies and have existed in Africa
for some time.
Some initiatives were started by regional
blocs and national governments, others by
international organisations. They have taken
the form of policies, networks, fora or actual
agencies.
The Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa (COMESA) launched the
COMESA Regional Investment Agency in
2006. Beyond promoting the region, the
agency aimed to strengthen the capacity
of national investment promotion agencies
within its jurisdiction. However, it has faced
some challenges, including a lack of political
credibility and resources.
At national level, the Nigerian Investment
Promotion Commission embarked on the
National Investment Certification Programme
for States in 2016. To ensure the investment
readiness of the country’s states, the project
provided capacity-building to help get states’
investment promotion structures certified.
One challenge was the varying levels
of capacity within the states as well as
PROMOTING INVESTMENT TO POWER AFRICA’S SINGLE MARKET
Regional investment initiatives have existed in Africa for some time and provide valuable
lessons for the AfCFTA.
their differentiated investment promotion
mechanisms. There have been recent
attempts to relaunch the programme.
A third initiative is the Africa Investment
Promotion Agency Network (AfrIPANet),
initiated by the United Nations Industrial
Development Organisation (UNIDO) in
2001. AfrIPANet was designed as a common
platform to discuss and design investment
promotion strategies and recorded some
achievements. Although AfrIPANet appears
to be on hold, UNIDO continues to support
African investment promotion agencies
through its Invest-in-ACP initiative – a cloud-
based, digital platform.
The Economic Community of West African
States created a Regional Investment Policy
Framework in 2007 but assessing how much
has been achieved is difficult. The East African
Community has a Business and Investment
Forum, and the African Development Bank
has the Africa Investment Forum, which is
held every year.
Major challenges facing all these initiatives
are their sustainability and difficulty measuring
their impact. Mobilising resources to keep
them effective becomes more complex over
time, especially when they are tied to specific
donor projects with limited funding cycles.
Aside from the varying capacities of
investment promotion agencies, there is also
the challenge of varying political will across
the blocs to implement needed reforms.
The proposed Pan-African Investment
Agency will be established within the
same tricky ecosystem with bureaucratic
hurdles, insufficient political will and funding
constraints.
To maximise the agency’s potential, it must
be set up to cooperate with existing regional
and national investment promotion agencies
to avoid duplication and leverage resources
more efficiently. A monitoring and evaluation
framework will be needed to track progress
and identify areas for improvement.
A gradualist approach should also be
considered, where an investment promotion
unit is created within the AfCFTA Secretariat
ahead of a full agency. This could improve
agility and allow an interative approach to
coordinating investment promotion efforts.
Digital platforms are vital for streamlining
access to investment-related information
and promoting transparency. By developing
a digital platform, the Pan-African Investment
Agency can centralise data and facilitate
information-sharing among stakeholders. It
can also enable transnational collaboration
among national investment promotion
agencies by designating focal points in each
AfCFTA member state.
Coordinating investment promotion
among the AfCFTA’s 54 member states
won’t be easy. But doing so, is crucial to
resolving the clashes between the free
trade deal’s continental aspirations and
member states' national policies and
realities. Knowledge accumulated from
initiatives in and outside the continent must
be examined to improve the chances of
success.
Promoting investment to power Africa’s
single market
Given that regional
value chains may
require cross-
border investment, a
coordinated approach
is ideal. Such regional
investment promotion
activities are often
carried out by
investment agencies
and have existed in
Africa for some time.

TOURISM MAKING GREAT STRIDES IN RECOVERY
Africa’s tourism sector is
open and thriving
I
n May 2023, the City of Durban hosted
the 2023 Africa Travel Indaba at the
Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre,
named after Africa’s first Nobel Peace
Prize Laureate, to celebrate Africa as we
all pull our efforts towards our sector’s
recovery after the COVID-19 pandemic.
In one of his famous quotes, Inkosi Luthuli
expressed his strong connection to Mother
Africa, saying: “I am an African. I am bound to
Africa by the ties of blood, race, history, culture
and language.”
During the month of May, we also
celebrated Africa Month, honouring the African
people’s incredible ingenuity, fortitude and
magnificence.
As Africans, together, we will craft a
narrative that tells our story in our own words,
sharing with the world the unique contributions
we bring to the global tourism community.
A repositioned Africa’s Travel Indaba
A lot has changed during the COVID-19
pandemic, and we felt it necessary and critical
to reposition Africa’s Travel Indaba to ensure
it remains relevant in the current environment.
This year, we hosted the Indaba under the
mantra, Shaping Africa’s Tomorrow, Through
Connection Today. This positioning speaks to
the essence of Africa’s Travel Indaba, bringing
the world to Africa to positively influence the
continent’s economic and cultural trajectories.
One of Africa’s best exports, Ben Okri, the
Nigerian author and poet, was on point when
he wrote: “The most authentic thing about
us, as Africans, is our capacity to create, to
overcome, to endure, to transform, to love, and
to be greater than our suffering.”
The 2023 Africa’s Travel Indaba, at near
the pre-pandemic scale, demonstrated that we
can host world-class events as Africans.
This year, we worked hard to exceed
pre-COVID attendance numbers and have an
estimated 6 000 people attending from all over
South Africa, Africa and the rest of the world.
This year’s Indaba saw more than 350
tourism products being showcased, 1 000
buyers from across the tourism ecosystem and
just under 1 000 exhibitors.
The attendees included destination
marketing bodies, hotel groups, airlines, tour
operators and 10 African tourism boards and
21 African countries represented.
Competition and collaboration
Competition is often considered the lifeblood of
destination marketing and tourism. However,
it is important to note that competition should
always be balanced with collaboration.
While healthy competition can drive growth
and innovation, unhealthy competition can lead
to a race to the bottom, with businesses and
destinations undercutting each other on price
and quality. Therefore, as the tourism industry,
let us foster a culture of healthy competition,
where businesses and destinations are
encouraged to compete on quality and
innovation.
By Patricia de Lille
Minister of Tourism
Long-term success in the industry depends not
only on competing but also on recognising the
value of collaboration and partnerships.
Each player in the value chain has a unique
role to play, and by working together, we
can create seamless and memorable travel
experiences for visitors.
Supporting tourism enterprises
The Department of Tourism keenly understands
the value of tourism businesses, especially
small to medium enterprises and that is why
I am proud of the investment we have made
in this regard as part of our Market Access
Support Programme (MASP), which, among
others, supported 123 local small inbound
tourism enterprises to showcase their products
and services at the Hidden Gems pavilion
during Africa’s Travel Indaba.
The total value of support approved for the
123 enterprises amounted to R11.7 million and
this investment enabled these small businesses
to display their unique products and services,
expand their networks and foster partnerships
that will drive the growth and sustainability of
the tourism industry in South Africa.
Africa’s tourism sector performance
Africa’s tourism sector is open and thriving,
offering various products and experiences,
catering to travellers’ needs and preferences.
South Africa has seen encouraging growth
in its tourist arrival numbers between January
and December 2022, when it reached nearly
5.8 million with over four million of those arrivals
from African countries.
This represents an overall inbound increase
of 152.6% for South Africa compared to
January to December 2021.
The future looks bright. We have, as a
collective, weathered the COVID-19 hurricane
and it should only propel us to exceed our
targets.
After stronger than expected recovery in
2022, this year could see international tourist
arrivals to South Africa return to pre-pandemic
levels in Europe and the Middle East. These
numbers demonstrate the immense potential
of tourism in Africa, not only as a revenue
generator but also as a job creator and a
catalyst for faster economic growth.
At Africa’s Travel Indaba, the African tourism
sector worked together to create sustained
growth and economic impact and it provided the
ideal platform for us to collectively showcase
our African products and experiences. The
business opportunities and quality connections
gained at this trade show will certainly shape
Africa’s tomorrow.
Challenges to overcome
In addition to collaboration across the value
chain, there are other areas where we need to
work together to unlock the full potential of the
African tourism sector.
One of these is the visa regime in all African
countries.
We must have a harmonised visa regime
across the continent to make it easier for
visitors to move from one country to another.
We must also simplify the e-visa application
process and reduce visa costs to make Africa
a more attractive destination for both Africans
and international travellers.
In this regard, South Africa has visa waivers
for several African countries for a specified
period and up to a maximum of 90 days,
including Southern African Development
Community countries such as Tanzania,
Namibia, Angola, Mozambique, Mauritius,
Malawi and Botswana.
We have also rolled out the e-visa system
to several countries, including Kenya, Nigeria,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Uganda, Cameroon and the
Democratic Republic of Congo and we are
expanding the e-visa system to an additional
20 countries.
Another critical area is airlift capacity.
On the global stage, Africa is the strongest
performer currently with international air
connectivity in Africa.
However, this growth has been uneven, with
some African regions and countries having
better airlift connectivity than others.
I am looking forward to work with various
partners in reducing the high cost of air travel
in Africa as we know that this deters visitors
and thereby limits tourism growth.
Despite some challenges, there are some
positive developments in the African aviation
sector.
For example, some African airlines are
expanding their fleets and increasing their
routes to meet the growing demand for air
travel.
The African Union (AU) has also launched
the Single African Air Transport Market,
which aims to liberalise air transport on the
continent and promote greater competition and
connectivity.
Sustainable tourism
We must prioritise sustainable tourism
practices that address climate change and
protect our environment and cultural heritage
while promoting economic development.
One of the key projects of the Department
of Tourism to help businesses mitigate climate
change and adapt to energy constraints is the
Green Tourism Incentive Programme (GTIP).
The programme encourages and
incentivises private-sector tourism enterprises
to move towards the installation of solutions
for the sustainable management and usage
of electricity and water resources through the
installation of solar-system and water-saving
technologies.
The GTIP also ensures an uninterrupted
visitor experience for tourists, reduces
operational input cost and facilitates increased
competitiveness and operational sustainability
in the tourism sector.
Apart from providing funding to 130
tourism businesses under this programme,
the Department of Tourism also invested
R98.5 million to retrofit eight state-owned
tourist attractions. Combined savings for all
eight sites were estimated to be just under
R40 million by the end of the 2022/23 financial
year.
Sustainability is big for the tourism sector.
We must invest in sustainable tourism to
protect communities’ natural resources,
cultural heritage and social fabric while creating
economic opportunities.
Again, collaboration and partnerships
between African countries and the public and
private sectors will be critical in achieving this
objective.
We must also prioritise innovation and
technology, which can help us develop and
promote our tourism offerings more effectively
and efficiently.
Finally, we must ensure that our efforts to
promote the African tourism sector are inclusive
and benefit all members of our society.
We must work to ensure that the benefits of
tourism are distributed equitably and that all
members of our communities can access the
opportunities created by the sector.
At the very least, that is what the future
generation of African children expect and
deserve.
Our top-notch hospitality, favourable
weather and unique wildlife are just a few
examples of what makes Africa an attractive
tourism destination.
Through tourism, we can help create cultural
exchanges, promote understanding and break
down stereotypes.
This can help to build bridges between
different communities and contribute to the
peaceful coexistence of different cultures and
religions.
On a domestic front, South Africa must
keep our country’s domestic sectors going.
Countries with a strong domestic tourism
sector are generally better equipped to
withstand fluctuations in international demand
as has been witnessed with the COVID-19
pandemic outbreak.
For us in South Africa, growing our country’s
tourism sector is a key aspect of the country’s
Tourism Sector Recovery Plan and aims to
ignite economic growth and create jobs.
It is possible. Let’s do it together.
This year’s Indaba saw more than 350 tourism products
being showcased, 1 000 buyers from across the
tourism ecosystem and just under 1 000 exhibitors.
As Africans, together, we will craft a narrative that tells our story in our own words, sharing
with the world the unique contributions we bring to the global tourism community.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
85
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 29  84

www.hisense.co.za
Email: mazhouxu@hisense.comProudly powering the XV BRICS Summit media centre screens.
For 28 years, since 1996, Hisense has
been rooted in the South African market.
Last year alone, the sales revenue of
Hisense South Africa increased by 10%
year-on-year.
At present, it has reached a scale of
US$447 million. Hisense has become a
well-known brand in South Africa and is
one of the best examples of a Chinese
brand operating in a local market. In
terms of performance, the brand has
taken the leading position in the South
African market, ranking first in the TV
market share with 32.3%. In refrigeration
(Hisense and MORA), the market share
is 30.8%, also ranking first in the industry.
Adhering to local operations, insisting
on producing high-quality products
with advanced technology and building
an efficient supply chain system are
important reasons for Hisense’s solid
success and vigorous growth in South
Africa. The business has observed
growth in TVs, mobile phones, laser TVs,
refrigerators, air conditioners, freezers
and other categories.
The commissioning of the Hisense
South Africa Manufacturing Company Ltd,
based in the Atlantis Special Economic
Zone just 40 kilometres from Cape
Town, has promoted the development
of the local economy, creating many
employment opportunities for residents of
the surrounding communities.
To date, the Hisense Industrial Park
has created 1 000 direct employment
opportunities and has driven rapid
development and growth of indirect
enterprises in the local economy.
Quality Hisense products, produced
by local South African staff, are exported
to African and European countries.
Hisense has also continuously provided
employment support for local youth in
Atlantis in a targeted manner so that they
can improve both their skills development
and lives. Before the epidemic, Hisense
South Africa trained about 1 000
unemployed rural youth aged 18 to 25.
At the same time, it also established
strategic cooperation with Atlantis Middle
School to provide a foundation for talent
transfer.
As a company with a high sense of
social responsibility, Hisense actively
participates in the construction of local
social welfare and insists on giving back
to the society in which it operates. In 2014,
Hisense donated products and materials
to the Orion Organisation for the disabled
as well as several orphanages in Kids
Haven.
During the epidemic, the business
donated refrigeration appliances to the
Paediatric Ward at Paarl Hospital to
store medicine and donated personal
protective equipment worth R600 000 to
the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital
– the largest COVID-19 testing centre
in Johannesburg. In May 2023, Hisense
South Africa Industrial Park and the
China-Africa Development Fund jointly
launched the “Light of Hope” China-Africa
Love Donation Ceremony where 800 solar
desk lamps were donated to improve the
learning environment for rural learners.
At the same time, a scholarship funding
plan was released. Hisense South Africa
will subsidise the tuition fees of the top
five students for one year.
In future, Hisense will continue to
adhere to South African operation
standards and continue to fulfil its social
responsibilities through expanding the
Industrial Park’s production capacity and
automation levels, as well as creating
more employment opportunities for local
communities.

It is no surprise that the Maldives, Seychelles, Mauritius and Zanzibar stood
out as winners for beach holidays, while South Africa’s Stellenbosch, Cape
Town and Hermanus were ranked highly for their food, restaurants and
wildlife, respectively.
Five things you didn’t know
about Africa’s most loved
destinations
U
nlike traditional tourism
awards or surveys, the
Tourism Sentiment Index
(TSI) sources data from
more than 500 000
online, peer-to-peer
communication platforms, including all
major social networks and review sites, to
deliver the clearest picture of what people
are talking about and writing about when
it comes to travel, tourism and the hottest
destinations around the globe. The latest
TSI data shows five African destinations are
proving to be crowd favourites.
It is no surprise that the Maldives,
Seychelles, Mauritius and Zanzibar stood
out as winners for beach holidays, while
South Africa’s Stellenbosch, Cape Town and
Hermanus were ranked highly for their food,
restaurants and wildlife, respectively.
Goodthingsguy asked travel industry
and destination experts to weigh in on the
accolades and share things many probably
didn’t know about the African destinations
currently being so popular.
With over 115 islands but only 459 square
kilometres of land, an astounding 99% of
this paradise is made up of water. And the
island nation has taken impressive steps to
protect it, designating 30% of its waters as
marine protected areas. “We’re not surprised
that Seychelles ranked fourth in the world
in the Tourism Sentiment Index. Seychelles’
water means everything to our people and
the economy, and we are doing everything
possible to protect it with our new Marine
Spatial Plan,” says the Principal Secretary for
Environment, Dennis Matatiken.
Matatiken continues: “Visitors to Seychelles
are likely familiar with its gorgeous coral-filled
reefs, but few know that these same waters
FIVE THINGS YOU DIDN’T KNOW ABOUT AFRICA’S MOST LOVED DESTINATIONS
Cape Town restaurants regularly feature in
The World’s 50 Best Restaurant Awards – with
Fyn Restaurant earning the plum spot of 37 in
2022.
Robert More, custodian and CEO of MORE
Family Collection, who recently launched
Upper Union Restaurant in Cape Town,
notes that Malay Cape Cuisine has become
synonymous with fine dining in the Mother City.
“Chefs are drawn to the complex combination
of strong, spicy and aromatic flavours. It’s
no surprise that Malay cuisine is used and
interpreted in many Cape Town restaurants,
including Upper Union, which is a perfect
addition to our globally inspired menu,” says
More.
“During colonial times, many Malaysian,
Indonesian and East African slaves who
were taken to the Cape in the 17th and 18th
centuries had limited access to their traditional
ingredients and therefore had to improvise.
This has resulted in a cuisine, which is solely
unique to the Cape, and steeped in history and
tradition.”
act as a stopping point for whale sharks
migrating from east to west each year. These
majestic creatures make their way to Australia
annually, taking advantage of this idyllic oasis
before continuing their journey.”
Cape Town – home to cuisine over 350 years old
Seychelles – only 1% of the country is solid land
Known for its incredible selection of wine
farms, Stellenbosch is a mecca for oenophiles
worldwide – hence it scooping the 34th spot in
the TSI 2023.
It took top honours at the 2022 International
Wine and Spirit Competition in 2022 with top
trophies for both best red and white wine
producers of the year. With more than 200
wine farms to choose from, visitors are spoilt
for choice when seeking out their ideal winery
experience and in the case of Pinotage, it’s one
you can’t replicate anywhere else in the world.
That’s because scientist Abraham Perold
created Pinotage in 1925 in Stellenbosch. He
crossed the Cinsaut and Pinot Noir varietals,
explains Visit Stellenbosch CEO, Jeanneret
Momberg.
“Pinotage wine is becoming increasingly
popular as wine drinkers worldwide discover
its dark fruit and oak flavours. We’ve been
excited to see that as it has increased in
popularity, more visitors come to Stellenbosch
on Pinotage pilgrimages,” says Momberg.
She notes Kanonkop Estate, Beyerskloof
and Kaapzicht are prime examples of wine
farms in Stellenbosch benefitting from the
worldwide “passion for Pinotage”.
Stellenbosch – the birthplace of a unique wine variety
Known for its incredible selection of wine farms, Stellenbosch is a mecca for
oenophiles worldwide – hence it scooping the 34th spot in the TSI 2023.
FIVE THINGS YOU DIDN’T KNOW ABOUT AFRICA’S MOST LOVED DESTINATIONS
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
88 89

unspoilt and is a must-visit for those keen
on water sports."
Tourism Sentiment Index / www.goodthingsguy.com
While South Africa’s game lodges and reserves are world-renowned,
Hermanus wins bragging rights as a wildlife destination of choice thanks to the
majestic southern right whales that are drawn to its shallow, sandy covers to
breed.
Hermanus – has a resident whale crier
Mauritius – it has more than one island
FIVE THINGS YOU DIDN’T KNOW ABOUT AFRICA’S MOST LOVED DESTINATIONS
The Republic of Mauritius is renowned for
its idyllic tropical beaches on the coastline,
approximately 330 km long. But the country
of Mauritius includes the island of Mauritius,
Rodrigues and the constituent outer islands
of Agaléga and St Brandon.
Antoinette Turner, GM of Flight Centre South
Africa, offers her insights into Rodrigues, a
gorgeous destination with just a short boat
or plane trip away from Mauritius.
She explains: "This is an area of incredible
beauty that remains largely undisturbed and
While South Africa’s game lodges and reserves
are world-renowned, Hermanus wins bragging
rights as a wildlife destination of choice thanks
to the majestic southern right whales that are
drawn to its shallow, sandy covers to breed.
“The unique geography of the shoreline of
Hermanus means that these gentle giants can
easily be observed from the land – or your
hotel room, in the case of The Marine Hotel,
which overlooks the whale sanctuary,” says
Giltedge Group CEO, Murray Gardiner.
It was in 1991 when Hermanus first made
history as the only town on Earth to have its
very own whale crier. The tradition began
informally, with a local alerting tourists of
whale sightings, and soon became officially
recognised, explains Gardiner.
“Thanks to this remarkable innovation,
everyone visiting Hermanus is now treated to
a unique experience,” he says.
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
90

Western Cape, South Africa
North West, South Africa

South Africa: The Cradle of Humankind
South Africa is a country where various cultures merge to form a unique nation proud
of its heritage. Her biggest asset is her people – a rainbow nation with rich and diverse
cultures.
S
outh Africa is a country
where various cultures
merge to form a unique
nation proud of its heritage.
The country boasts
some of the world’s most
breathtaking scenery and features an
amazing display of bird- and wildlife species,
which include the Big Five (lion, leopard,
elephant, buffalo and rhino).
South Africa’s biggest assist is its people
– a rainbow nation with rich and diverse
cultures.
South Africa is often called “The Cradle of
Humankind” for this is where archaeologists
discovered 2,5-million-year-old fossils of our
earliest ancestors, as well as 100 000-year-
old remains of modern man.
History
The first European settlement in southern
Africa was established by the Dutch East
India Company in Table Bay (Cape Town) in
1652. Created to supply passing ships with
fresh produce, the colony grew rapidly as
Dutch farmers settled to grow crops.
South Africa’s democracy was a victory
over struggle and a triumph for diversity.
Our rich, deep and diverse cultures and
complex history combine to create a rich
tapestry of human experience.
The country’s liberation from apartheid
and the construction of a multiracial
democratic dispensation is a benchmark for
the universal aspirations of peace, freedom,
equality and dignity.
Geography
South Africa occupies the southernmost tip
of Africa. The country stretches latitudinally
from 22° to 35° S and longitudinally from 17°
to 33° E. Its surface area is 1 219 090 km².
The country has common boundaries with
Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe, while
Mozambique and Swaziland lie to the north-
east. Completely enclosed by South African
territory in the south-east is the mountain
kingdom of Lesotho.
To the west, south and east, South Africa
borders on the Atlantic and Indian oceans.
Isolated, some 1 920 km south-east of Cape
Town in the Atlantic, lie the Prince Edward
and Marion islands, annexed by South Africa
in 1947.
The country’s physical features range from
bushveld through deserts and forests, up
majestic mountain peaks and down to wide
unspoilt beaches and coastal wetlands.
The oceans
South Africa’s largest neighbours are the
Atlantic and Indian oceans, which meet at
the southwestern corner of the continent.
The warm Mozambique-Agulhas Current
skirts the east and south coasts as far as
Cape Agulhas, while the cold Benguela
Current flows northwards along the west
coast as far as southern Angola.
The contrast in temperature between these
two currents partly accounts for important
differences in climate and vegetation
between the east and west coasts of South
Africa.
The coastline stretches more than
3 000 km and is an even, closed one with
few bays or indentations naturally suitable
for harbours.
Climatic features
Although the country is classified as semi-
arid, it has considerable variation in climate.
The subtropical location, on either side
of 30° S, accounts for the warm temperate
conditions so typical of South Africa, making
it a popular destination for foreign tourists.
Being in the southern hemisphere, the
seasons in South Africa are opposite to
those of Europe and North America.
The country also falls squarely within the
subtropical belt of high pressure, making it
dry with an abundance of sunshine. Although
Durban (east coast) and Port Nolloth (west
coast) lie more or less on the same latitude,
there is a difference of at least 6° C in their
mean annual temperatures.
Temperature conditions in South Africa
are characterised by three main features:
they tend to be lower than in other regions
at similar latitudes, for example, Australia,
due primarily to the greater elevation of
the subcontinent above sea level; despite
a latitudinal span of 13°, average annual
temperatures are remarkably uniform
throughout the country; and there is a
striking contrast between temperatures
on the east and west coasts. Owing to the
increase in the height of the plateau towards
the north-east, there is hardly any increase in
temperature from south to north.
Temperatures above 32° C are fairly
common in summer, and frequently exceed
38° C in the lower Orange River Valley and
the Mpumalanga Lowveld.
• Spring: September, October, November
• Summer: December through February
• Autumn: March, April, May
• Winter: June through August.
Population
Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) estimated
the mid-year population at 60,60 million
people in 2022. Approximately 51,1%
(approximately 30,98 million) of the
population is female.
By 2022, there was a rise in life expectancy
at birth, estimated at 60,0 years for males
and 65,6 years for females. Overall life
expectancy at birth increased to 62,8 in 2022
from 61,7 (peak of COVID-related deaths) in
2021.
Gauteng comprises the largest share of the
South African population, with approximately
16,10 million people (26,6%) living in this
province.
KwaZulu-Natal is the province with the
second-largest population, with an estimated
11,54 million people (19,0%) living in this
province.
Northern Cape remains the province
with the smallest share of the South African
population.
About 28,07% of the population is aged
younger than 15 years (17,01 million) and
approximately 9,2% (5,59 million) is 60 years
or older.
Government system
South Africa is a constitutional democracy
with a three-tier system of government and
an independent judiciary.
The national, provincial and local levels
of government all have legislative and
executive authority in their own spheres, and
are defined in the Constitution as distinctive,
interdependent and interrelated. Operating
at both national and provincial levels are
advisory bodies drawn from South Africa’s
traditional leaders.
It is a stated intention in the Constitution
that the country be run on a system of
cooperative governance.
Government is committed to the building
of a free, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic,
united and successful South Africa.
Parliament consists of the National
Assembly (NA) and the National Council of
Provinces (NCOP). Parliamentary sittings
are open to the public. Several measures
have been implemented to make Parliament
more accessible and accountable.
The NA consists of no fewer than 350 and
no more than 400 members, elected through
a system of proportional representation for a
five-year term.
It elects the President and scrutinises the
executive.
The NCOP consists of 54 permanent
members and 36 special delegates. The
purpose of the NCOP is to represent the
interests of the provinces in the national
sphere of government.
Constitution
South Africa’s Constitution is one of the most
progressive in the world and enjoys high
acclaim internationally. Human rights are
given clear prominence in the Constitution.
The Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa of 1996 was approved by the
Constitutional Court on 4 December 1996
and took effect on 4 February 1997.
The Constitution is the supreme law of the
land.
No other law or government action can
supersede the provisions of the Constitution.
Judicial system
The judicial authority in South Africa is vested
in the courts, which are independent and
subject only to the Constitution and the law.
SOUTH AFRICA: THE CRADLE OF HUMANKIND

No person or organ of State may interfere
with the functioning of the courts, and an
order or decision of a court binds all organs
of State and people to whom it applies.
The Constitution provides for the
following:
• Constitutional Court
• Supreme Court of Appeal
• High Courts, including any High
Court of Appeal that may be
established by an Act of Parliament
to hear appeals from high courts
• Magistrates’ courts
• any other court established or
recognised in terms of an Act of
Parliament, including any court of a
status similar to either high courts or
magistrates’ courts.
Other courts include: Income tax Courts, the
Labour Court and the Labour Appeal Court,
the Land Claims Court, the Competition
Appeal Court, the Electoral Court, divorce
courts, small claims courts, military courts
and equality courts.
Decisions of the Constitutional Court,
the Supreme Court of Appeal and the high
courts are an important source of law. These
courts uphold and enforce the Constitution
International relations
South Africa’s unique approach to global
issues has found expression in the concept
of Ubuntu.
This concept informs the country’s
particular approach to diplomacy. This
philosophy translates into an approach
to international relations that respects all
nations, peoples and cultures. It recognises
that it is in South Africa’s National Interest
to promote and support the positive
development of others.
South Africa therefore accords central
importance to:
• its immediate African neighbourhood
and continent
• working with countries of the South
to address shared challenges of
underdevelopment, promoting global
equity and social justice
• working with countries of the North
to develop a true and effective
partnership for a better world
• doing its part to strengthen the
multilateral system, including its
transformation, to reflect the diversity
of nations and ensure its centrality in
global governance.
By prioritising Africa and promoting its
renewal, development and reconstruction,
South Africa is contributing to building a
better Africa, which is the central foreign
policy goal of the South African Government.
After the democratic elections in 1994,
South Africa ceased to be the pariah of the
world; it regained its rightful place in Africa,
in the United Nations and in the family of
nations.
South Africa emerged as a democratic
country into a fundamentally transformed
world with a visionary foreign policy that
promotes relations with other countries.
South Africa maintains diplomatic relations
with countries and international organisations
through its missions abroad, and through the
accreditation of countries and international
organisations resident in South Africa.
The diplomatic and consular missions
implement South Africa's foreign policy to
enhance its international profile and serve as
strategic mechanisms for the achievement of
National Interest.
South Africa is a member of various
regional, continental and international
organisations.
Economy and investment
South Africa defines itself as an investment-
friendly environment and has piqued interest
with global investors through increasing
engagement and networking.
As one of the most open economies in
the world (exports and imports collectively
represented approximately 51% of gross
domestic product [GDP] in 2020), and with
preferential access to numerous global
markets, South Africa’s investment drive
aims to improve confidence in the country’s
economy and achieve balanced, sustainable
and inclusive growth. With developed first-
world economic infrastructure and a growing
emerging market, South Africa’s investment
potential lies in its diversity of sectors and
industries, South Africa is also a major
trading nation, exporting and importing
billions worth of goods globally every year.
South Africa remains an investment
destination of choice for many global
corporates, with more than 180 Fortune
Global 500 companies having a footprint in
the country.
South Africa is the preferred location for
multinational investors in Africa. Its unique
value proposition makes the country an
attractive destination for a growing array of
investors and industries.
Today, South Africa is not only a resource-
rich economy with access to both a vibrant
local market and a growing regional market
but also a financial, technical and innovation
hub attracting companies looking to tap into
the country´s talent pool.
Transport
South Africa has a modern and well-
developed transport infrastructure. The air
and rail networks are the largest on the
continent, and the roads in good condition.
The country’s ports provide a natural
stopover for shipping to and from Europe,
the Americas, Asia, Australasia and both
coasts of Africa.
South Africa’s three major international
airports are OR Tambo International
Airport (ORTIA) (Johannesburg); Cape
Town International Airport; and King Shaka
International Airport (Durban).
There are also many regional airports,
including the Kruger Mpumalanga
International Airport in Mbombela
(Nelspruit).
The Gautrain is an 80-kilometre (50-mile)
high-speed express commuter rail system
in Gauteng, which links Johannesburg,
Pretoria, Kempton Park and ORTIA.
It takes 15 minutes to travel from
Sandton to ORTIA on the Gautrain and 35
minutes from Pretoria to Park Station in
Johannesburg.
The Gautrain has 10 stations. Buses,
shuttles and midibus services are available
to transport passengers to and from all
stations, excluding the ORTIA Station.
Mineral wealth
South Africa’s mineral wealth translates
into, among others, 96% of known global
reserves of platinum-group metals, 74%
of chrome, 80% of manganese, 25% of
vanadium and 11% of gold reserves.
Mining is one of the centres of South
Africa’s economy. It accounts for 7,9% of
GDP and employ almost 460 000 people.
Agriculture
The agriculture, forestry and fisheries
sectors were South Africa’s fastest-growing
sectors in 2020 and 2021. The sector grew
its gross value-added by 13% year on year
in 2020 and by 8.3% year on year in 2021,
underscoring its value as a sector that
can deliver growth and is not correlated to
the fortunes of most other sectors of the
economy.
Environment
South Africa has 10 world heritage sites
proclaimed by UNESCO, namely:
• Robben Island (Western Cape)
• iSimangaliso Wetlands Park
(KwaZulu-Natal)
• Fossil Hominid Sites (Gauteng)
• Maloti-Drakensberg Park (KwaZulu-
Natal)
• Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape
(Limpopo)
• Cape Floral Kingdom (Western
Cape)
• Richtersveld Cultural and Botanical
Landscape (Northern Cape)
• Vredefort Dome (Gauteng)
• ‡Khomani Cultural Landscape
• Baberton Makhonjwa Mountains
(Mpumalanga).
SANParks manages a system of 19
functional national parks in seven of the
nine provinces of South Africa with a total
area of just over four million hectares
comprising 67% of the protected areas
under state management.
SANParks is recognised as a world
leader in conservation and protected area
management.
SOUTH AFRICA: THE CRADLE OF HUMANKINDSOUTH AFRICA: THE CRADLE OF HUMANKIND
FAST FACTS
HEAD OF STATE President Cyril Ramaphosa
GOVERNMENT Constitutional multiparty democracy, with three spheres – local, provincial and national government.
NATIONAL DAY Freedom Day, 27 April. Freedom Day commemorates the first democratic elections held in South Africa on 27 April 1994.
POPULATION Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) estimated the mid-year population at 60,60 million people in 2022. Approximately 51,1%
(approximately 30,98 million) of the population is female.
LANGUAGES The country is multilingual with 12 official languages, each of which is guaranteed equal status. Most South Africans
are multilingual and able to speak at least two or more of the official languages. The languages are: Afrikaans, English,
isiNdebele, isiXhosa, isiZulu, Sepedi, Sesotho, Setswana, siSwati, Tshivenda, Xitsonga and Sign Language. Attention is also
paid to the Khoi, Nama and San languages.
                  RELIGION South Africa is a secular democracy with freedom of religion. Many religions are represented in the ethnic and regional
diversity of the population. The majority of South Africans, or 79,8%, are Christian.
LAND SURFACE AREA 1 219 602 km²
CAPITALS Pretoria (administrative); Cape Town (legislative); Bloemfontein (judicial). The Constitutional Court is located in
Johannesburg.
PROVINCES Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Northern Cape, North West and Western
Cape.
CURRENCY Rand (ZAR) – 100 cents equals one rand.
TIME GMT +2 hours

• Durban’s beaches and the Drakensberg
mountain range in KwaZulu-Natal
• Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape in
Limpopo
• Addo Elephant National Park and the
Wild Coast in the Eastern Cape
• Apartheid Museum and the Cradle of
Humankind in Gauteng
• Pilanesberg Game Reserve and Sun
City in North West
• Vredefort Dome and the eastern Free
State
• The Big Hole and the Kgalagadi
Transfrontier Park in the Northern Cape
• The Garden Route along the Indian
Ocean from Mossel Bay, in the Western
Cape, to the Storms River, in the Eastern
Cape
• Stellenbosch in the Western Cape
• iSimangaliso Wetland Park in KwaZulu-
Natal
• Blyde River Canyon Nature Reserve in
Mpumalanga
• Boulders Penguin Colony, Simon's
Town, in the Western Cape
• the Wild Coast in the Eastern Cape.
Sport

South Africa is among a few countries that
have participated in world cups of all three
major and arguably most popular sports –
cricket, football and rugby.
South Africa has hosted a number of
international sports meetings such as the
1995 Rugby World Cup, 1996 African Cup of
Nations, 2003 Cricket World Cup, the 2007
World Twenty20 Championship and the 2010
FIFA World Cup, making it the first African
country to ever host the FIFA World Cup.
Our sportsmen and women have proven
countless times why we retain world champion
status in green, gold and white.
More recently, the 2023 ICC Women’s
T20 World Cup was held in Cape Town in
February 2023. The Netball World Cup 2023
was held in Cape Town from 28 July to 6
August 2023 and was the first to take place
on the continent of Africa.
Sources: Mid-year population estimates, 2022, Statistics
South Africa; Pocket Guide to South Africa 2021/22;
www.brandsouthafrica.com; www.southafrica.net.
ESTHER MAHLANGU: SOUTH AFRICA'S GLOBAL CULTURAL AMBASSADORSOUTH AFRICA: THE CRADLE OF HUMANKIND
Biodiversity
South Africa is among the smaller of the
world's 17 megadiverse countries, which
together contain more than two thirds of the
world's biodiversity.
Three of the 36 biodiversity hotspots of the
world (regions that are biologically rich and
highly threatened) occur in South Africa: the
Succulent Karoo, the Cape Floristic Region
and the Maputaland-Pondoland-Albany.
South Africa has a wide range of bioclimatic,
oceanographic, geological and topographical
settings.
These create high ecosystem diversity and
endemism across terrestrial, freshwater and
marine ecosystems, which are recognised
globally.
Communications
South Africa has a well-developed
communications infrastructure. A number of
cellphone providers offer national coverage
and there are well-established landline
phone networks. Internet and Wi-Fi are easily
accessible in most urban areas.
According to Stats SA, 77.5% of South
African households had at least one member
who had access to or used the Internet at
locations such as their homes, work, place
of study, Internet cafés or at public hot spots.
Access to the Internet using all available
means was highest in Western Cape (89,1%)
About 40% of South Africa’s population are
active social media users.
Media
South Africa has a vibrant and independent
media.
According to the Bill of Rights, as contained
in the Constitution, everyone has the right to
freedom of expression, which includes:
• freedom of the press and other media
• freedom to receive or impart information
or ideas
• freedom of artistic creativity
• academic freedom and freedom of
scientific research.
The South African Broadcasting Corporation
(SABC) is the country’s only public service
broadcaster. There are several private and
community radio and television stations in
South Africa.
Technical handling of the print media in
South Africa rates among the best in the
world. This is one reason why newspapers
and magazines have held their own in a
volatile information era, characterised by the
vast development of various new forms of
media-delivery platforms via the Internet.
Most South African newspapers and
magazines are organised into several major
publishing houses.
Health
South Africa has been well known for its
medical skills since Professor Christiaan
Barnard performed the first successful human
heart transplant in the country in 1967. There
are many world-class private hospitals and
medical centres around the country, especially
in the urban areas, while many state hospitals
also offer excellent care, among them Groote
Schuur Hospital in Cape Town.
Most of South Africa is malaria-free, but
visitors to the Kruger National Park or low-lying
parts of northern KwaZulu-Natal are entering
malarial areas and should take precautions in
the form of prophylactic medication.
Tourism
South Africa's tourism industry is well
established, with an exciting sector of
emerging entrepreneurs. The country is
strong on adventure, sport, nature and
wildlife, and is a pioneer and global leader in
responsible tourism.
From January to March 2023, 2.1 million
visitors came to South Africa’s shores ‒ a
102.5% increase compared to the same
period in 2022. While still 21.5% lower than
2019 levels, the tourism industry is gaining
ground rapidly.
The African continent led the way with
1.6 million arrivals, followed by Europe's
387 000 and the Americas' 104 000 visitors.
Popular tourist attractions include:
• Kruger National Park on the border of
Limpopo and Mpumalanga
• Table Mountain and Robben Island in
the Western Cape
More than 60 million different voices
echoing in harmony from the southernmost part of the continent.
Where ordinary people have carved their names
in an extraordinary history by showing the world
that peace is always better than war.
Our reach is not limited by our borders,
bringing joy in people’s hearts
and a spark of rhythm to their moves.
This is a welcoming home of opportunity,
inspiring millions to look here in search of a better life;
and sharing our best with the world.
We are home to undulating mountains, ﬂowers, endless seas,
the beautiful animal kingdom and the ever-changing seasons
that colour our world.
We are the birthplace of humanity,
and a showcase of human excellence.
We believe in South Africa.
We are inspired by our victories of the past
and our strong institutions to overcome the challenges of today
and build a better tomorrow.
This is who we are – South African
1994 | SOUTH AFRICA

Esther Mahlangu:
South Africa’s global
cultural ambassador
E
sther Mahlangu is globally
acclaimed for her bright and
bold abstract paintings that
are inspired by Ndebele
design. She was a disruptor
from an early age, becoming
the first person to reimagine Ndebele
design, which is traditionally used for
decorating houses, and on contemporary
mediums.
She was born in 1935 on a farm outside
Middleburg, in what is now the Mpumalanga
province. She was the first of nine children:
six boys and three girls.
Following traditions passed down from
her mother and grandmother, she learned
traditional Ndebele wall painting and
beadwork as a child.
She became an expert in executing
murals as a teenager, using a wide range
of paint colours that emerged in the 1940s.
She married and had three sons but lost her
husband and two of her children. Between
1980 and 1991, she lived and worked at the
Botshabelo Historical Village, an open-air
Ndebele museum.
In 1986, researchers from Paris who were
travelling the world to document traditional
arts saw the paintings on Mahlangu’s
house. They invited her to create murals for
an exhibition of international contemporary
art, the Magiciens de la Terre (“Magicians
of the World”).
She travelled to France in 1989, staying
there for two months and painting a house
in front of thousands of spectators. She
also decorated a wall inside the Musée
d'Angoulême (Angouleme Museum of Fine
Arts) and showed her work at other locations
in France. In 1990, she began to paint
murals for public venues in Johannesburg
and elsewhere in South Africa, soon
followed by locations in Europe and the
United States. Her work has appeared in
exhibitions in more than a dozen countries
worldwide.
Dr Mahlangu has spent more than seven
decades practising her art form and has
travelled extensively to collaborate with the
world's most respected museums, galleries,
curators, art fairs, celebrities and global
brands.
 In 1991, she became the first lady and
first African to participate in the BMW Art
Car Collection alongside other notables of
the likes of Andy Warhol, David Hockney,
Roy Lichtenstein and Frank Stella.
 The bold Ndebele-inspired artworks for
which she is globally acclaimed grace many
of the world’s most respected museums, and
private, public and corporate collections.
Many experts believe that any important
Pan-African contemporary collection cannot
be considered complete without including
one of her works.
 While firmly anchored in her traditional
Ndebele culture, and choosing to live in
rural Mpumalanga, Dr Mahlangu continues
to spend considerable time in many of the
world’s largest and most modern cities
collaborating with museums, art fairs,
curators, celebrities and respected global
brands. Some of her most famous murals
have been exhibited at the New Identities
Exhibition in the Bocum Museum in
Germany, at the Virgin Atlantic's music store
in Times Square, the National Museum of
Women in the Arts in Washington DC and at
the Civic Theatre in Johannesburg.
She is considered a visionary and has
painted anything from canvases, walls,
ceramic pots, sneakers and doors to cars,
arts.  In 2020, she became the first artist in
ESTHER MAHLANGU: SOUTH AFRICA'S GLOBAL CULTURAL AMBASSADOR
Dr Mahlangu has spent more than seven decades practising her art form and has
travelled extensively to collaborate with the world's most respected museums, galleries,
curators, art fairs, celebrities and global brands.
ESTHER MAHLANGU: SOUTH AFRICA’S GLOBAL CULTURAL AMBASSADOR
the world to be commissioned to paint an
artwork for the “gallery” of a new Rolls-Royce
Phantom, which they named The Mahlangu
in her honour.
With the goal of preserving her cultural
heritage, Dr Mahlangu started an art school
in the backyard of her home in Mabhoko
(Weltevreden) in the KwaMhlanga district in
Mpumalanga. She funded the school herself,
and when not travelling for exhibitions, she
mentors young artists in the traditional style
of Ndebele design. Pupils learn how to mix
pigments and paint straight lines, freehanded
and without sketches, using their fingers or
chicken feathers.
Dr Mahlangu is exclusively represented by
The Melrose Gallery in Johannesburg.
www.sahistory.org.za / themelrosegallery.com
Many experts believe
that any important Pan-
African contemporary
collection cannot be
considered complete
without including one of
her works.
bicycles, motorbikes and skateboard decks.
This has led her to well-known global
collaborations with the likes of Rolls-Royce,
BMW, Fiat, South African Airways, British
Airways, John Legend, Belvedere Vodka, The
Smithsonian Museum, Freshpak Rooibos,
and many others.
 In 2018, Dr Mahlangu was presented with
two honorary doctorates, and in 2019, she
was appointed as Officer of Arts and Letters,
which is France's highest decoration for her
contribution to the arts; the Department of Arts
and Culture published a book in her honour;
and she received an award from the United
Nations in Johannesburg.
She also received the South African
Government’s Order of Ikhamanga, Silver
Class, in 2006 for her excellent contribution to
the development of the indigenous Ndebele
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
100
100

Limpopo, South Africa
Embark on an extraordinary journey with Veenwouden, a boutique winery epitomising
unmatched luxury and sophistication in Paarl. Since 1989, Veenwouden has revolutionised
winemaking, crafting wines that redefine excellence and establishing an unrivalled reputation.
Our vineyards grace the valley, producing grapes of unparalleled perfection, fuelled by the cool
Atlantic Ocean breezes and a Mediterranean-like microclimate.
Our heritage wines are chosen as the ultimate gifts from South African presidents to visiting
heads of states, symbolising our nation's essence and hospitality.
Unleash the Unrivalled Excellence
of Veenwouden Wines
Veenwouden stands as a pioneer of ingenuity with a meticulous selection of noble cultivars,
including: iconic Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc and Malbec. The world has taken
notice of our greatness, with Veenwouden wines chosen for South African state dinners by
three visionary presidents.
www.veenwouden.com    Latitude: -33.685556    Longitude: 18.964444
Indulge in Veenwouden
Embrace Unrivalled Excellence

Through sheer resilience and some good fortune,
opera singers like Yende, Pumeza Matshikiza, Vuvu
Mpofu, Musa Ngqungwana and Cecilia Masabane
Rangwanasha made strides towards international
stardom. None of them knew, as they joined a junior
school choir, that they would become opera stars.
The empire sings back:
The deep history behind South African
soprano Pretty Yende’s triumph
Born into the oppressive legacy of colonialism and apartheid, she has adopted a
Eurocentric art form and mastered it with skills honed by communal African tutelage.
The result is a unique and resilient force.
By Thembela Vokwana
Lecturer, University of Fort Hare
A
mong the invited artists at
the coronation of Britain’s
King Charles III was the
South African soprano,
Pretty Yende. Coronations
are not events that take
place often. What made the moment special
is not just singing for a new king, but the
rareness of the occasion. After millions
of global television viewers experienced
her soaring high notes, stage presence,
musicality and star quality, audiences were
no doubt asking, “Who is she, where does
she come from?”
As a scholar of African opera with a
particular research interest in various South
African singers, including Pretty Yende –
and what is sometimes called Black vocality
– I would like to present a slightly different
history of her than most writers do. My
interest here is showing Yende as a product
of global histories and processes across
time and space. That her singing is in fact
embedded in the globalisation of the 1800s
and its continuity to the 2000s. The varied
and painful tapestry that ultimately led
Yende back to Britain has a long historical
basis.
My interest is to excavate Yende’s
vocal memory by looking at history and
the community. Opera stardom did not
surreptitiously land in her lap. Instead,
home, church and school singing was
foundational. For someone with no
foundational classical education, to go
on to sing in French, Italian and German
(and speak these languages with ease)
reveals how she has triumphed against the
limitations of both empire and the legacy of
apartheid’s lack of opportunities for black
South Africans.
Amakwaya
During the reign of Queen Victoria, in
the early to mid-1800s, a group of British
settlers entered the port of what became
known as Port Elizabeth (now Gqeberha)
in South Africa. As they gradually moved
east, a small group of Scottish missionaries
settled on the banks of the Tyhume River
to establish what was eventually known as
Lovedale College.
It was at Lovedale that most locals
learned to read, write and – importantly for
the discussion here – sing and compose by
notating music. It was in the Lovedale Press
that the country’s first choral composition
was published. This space formed the
seeds of a choir singing tradition called
amakwaya.
Many Black South Africans owe their
musical prowess to being part of a choir
at school or in the community. The joy
of singing came through preparing for
competitions. Ever since the 1800s choir
competitions pervade various sectors of
society – schools, churches, government
departments. These have eliminations
which culminate in national finals. These
competitions were based on Welsh
eisteddfods.
Over the years, there have been
modifications to suit local needs and tastes
in the major national festivals. Uniquely for
the late 1990s and early 2000s, opera arias,
ensembles and choruses were prescribed in
the repertoire.
Black communities in South Africa have
no formal music tuition. Forms of training
are relational, through singing with the
family at home, and communal singing at
school and church. This too is a product
of historical processes. After colonialism,
the white-minority apartheid government
(1948 to 1994) provided a system of inferior
education to black students who attended
schools which did not have the resources
to provide quality music education, a legacy
that continued into post-apartheid South
Africa. Born in 1985, Yende began her
schooling in the early 1990s, as a transition
to democracy was taking place in the
country.
Thousands of kilometres from Lovedale, in
the small town of Piet Retief in Mpumalanga
province, Yende’s musicality was incubated
in her family’s lounge. She sang with
siblings, uncles and her grandmother,
gogo KaDladla, who taught her choruses
from a church-based form of music called
amakhorasi that’s accompanied by dancing
and clapping of hands. She developed her
voice there and at Ndlela High School,
under the guidance of conductor Ndumiso
Kwazikwenkosi Sithole, and in community
THE EMPIRE SINGS BACK: THE DEEP HISTORY BEHIND SOUTH AFRICAN SOPRANO PRETTY YENDE’S TRIUMPH
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
105

She has shattered all
imaginable glass ceilings.
And this at only 38 years
old.
THE EMPIRE SINGS BACK: THE DEEP HISTORY BEHIND SOUTH AFRICAN SOPRANO PRETTY YENDE’S TRIUMPH
choirs, particularly the Africa Sings Choir
under George Mohlala.
Thus, although first hearing French
composer Léo Delibes’ Flower Duet sparked
great awe and interest in a genre she
hadn’t known existed before – opera – she
was already part of a grassroots network
of music making before embarking on an
opera path. In a newly democratic South
Africa, Yende won the national schools
championship singing Austrian composer
Wolfgang Mozart’s Batti, Batti, O Bel
Masetto. She earned a platinum category
result, which means she bagged 90-100%.
It would be just one of several competition
victories that left judges like choir conductor
Themba Madlopa mesmerised by her talent.
It is again from the community music
scene that Yende received opera assistance
and coaching – from the likes of choral
music champion and opera singer Nolufefe
Mtshabe and leading choir competition
organiser Mzwandile Matthews. Yende
finally benefitted from a formal music
education when, thanks to her eisteddfod
success, she was accepted into the
University of Cape Town for a diploma in
opera studies in 2003.
Here, very much in brush strokes, I have
tried to map the importance of amakwaya
as an informal conservatoire for Black
South African opera singers. Through sheer
resilience and some good fortune, opera
singers like Yende, Pumeza Matshikiza,
Vuvu Mpofu, Musa Ngqungwana and
Cecilia Masabane Rangwanasha made
strides towards international stardom. None
of them knew, as they joined a junior school
choir, that they would become  opera stars.
The global stage
Amakwaya (choirs) are known for teaching
discipline. It is discipline and fortitude that
led Yende to graduate cum laude from
the University of Cape Town. She would
embark on a remarkable spree of winning
just about any competition she participated
in. In 2016, in the prestigious international
Belvedere Singing Competition, she won
a prize for each category and was named
overall winner.
Her global career began with bel
canto roles in the Italian opera style. Her
scintillating voice led her to all the major
opera houses around the globe. She has
performed with great artists such as Italian
tenor Andrea Bocelli and performed many
leading roles. She has won national orders
in her home county, Italy, France and
elsewhere. She has shattered all imaginable
glass ceilings. And this at only 38 years old.
In 2022, Yende was invited to sing at
the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra’s 75th
anniversary celebrations at Windsor Castle.
Her inimitable style must have mesmerised
King Charles, because he reportedly
extended a personal invitation to perform at
his coronation.
Yende sang Sacred Fire by
environmentally conscious British
composer Sarah Class. The creative forces
of two award-winning female musicians was
formidable. But Yende’s path is particularly
singular.
Her performance marked a historical
moment. Born into the oppressive legacy of
colonialism and apartheid, she has adopted
a Eurocentric art form and mastered it with
skills honed by communal African tutelage.
The result is a unique and resilient force . As
she ascends the stage, may her ancestors
guide her to even greater heights.
Makube chosi, kube hele. (Everything
that is said, let it manifest.
This article was first published on The Conversation.

SOUTH AFRICA'S HIDDEN JAZZ HISTORY IS BEING RESTORED ALBUM BY ALBUM
South Africa's hidden jazz
history is being restored
album by album
I
t was fitting that Johannesburg was
among 12 cities featured in the 2023
UNESCO International Jazz Day,
themed Jazz Journey around the World.
The day, established in 2011 to celebrate
the role of jazz in "uniting peoples across
the globe", is now marked annually on 30 April
in close to 200 nations. It would have been
hosted by Cape Town in 2020 had COVID-19
not intervened.
Even so, many jazz lovers elsewhere may
be aware of the long history and uniqueness of
South Africa's jazz legacy through only a few
names – Miriam Makeba, Abdullah Ibrahim
and Hugh Masekela – who were driven out
by apartheid to find world stages. Uncovering,
documenting and showcasing more of the
creativity that fought to flower inside the
country remains a work in progress.
For writer and filmmaker Calum
MacNaughton of Cape Town-based Sharp-
Flat Music, it is vital work. He is the archivist
and curator of the historic As-Shams record
label archive. MacNaughton told me, in an
interview as part of my ongoing research into
South African jazz histories, that he wanted
access to the archive not only for musicology
researchers but "enthusiasts and budding
musicians in frivolous conversation late into
the night".
As-Shams has a 60-year history as South
Africa's first black-owned record label,
founded by music producer Rashid Vally out
of a corner of his father's Koh-i-Noor general
store in central Johannesburg. As-Shams was
responsible for an eclectic array of releases
from the teenage township pop of the Beaters
(who became Harari) to the iconic, implicitly
subversive Mannenberg (Is Where it's
Happening) of Abdullah Ibrahim (then Dollar
Brand).
As part of opening access, As-Shams
recently released the first volume of a planned
series of archival compilations covering the
label's history. As-Shams Archive Vol. 1:
South African Jazz, Funk & Soul 1975-1982
contains 10 tracks, 10 original compositions
and 10 ensembles. More than 90 minutes
of music spans eight deeply repressive
apartheid years. Yet, in those years, artists
of the calibre of pianists Lionel Pillay, Tete
Mbambisa and Pat Matshikiza, saxophonists
Kippie Moeketsi, Basil "Manenberg" Coetzee
and Mike Makhalemele, and vocalist Sathima
Bea Benjamin were making original, innovative
music.
The album
The compilation unites tracks from various
albums As-Shams has already re-mastered
and reissued, predominantly since 2020. But
curating its contents, says MacNaughton,
provided the opportunity for a fresh approach to
As-Shams has a 60-year history as South Africa's first black-owned record label,
founded by music producer Rashid Vally out of a corner of his father's Koh-i-Noor
general store in central Johannesburg.
By Gwen Ansell
Associate of the Gordon Institute for Business Science, University of Pretoria
shape new sequences reflecting professional
networks and shared thematic concerns.
For example: On the vinyl edition, Side A
is dedicated to the remarkable connection
between Moeketsi and Matshikiza. Dick
Khoza (as leader is heard), on the heels of
his performance with Mbambisa's big band,
Black Disco's Night Express and Pillay's
Deeper in Black are thematically linked. And
the compilation closes with Benjamin's music,
which ties everything together with a spiritual
thread.
There's also what he calls an "11th hidden
track": artwork on the vinyl from South African
painter and graphicist Hargreaves Ntukwana,
often the label's cover artist of choice.
This restructuring works: tracks have
a wholly new impact when heard in fresh
company rather than embedded in their original
albums. By avoiding the "obvious" choices –
often the title tracks – the collection conveys
the collective music-making of a community
and an era rather than fondly remembered
jazz hits.
Restoring the archive
Yet, the process of recovering what
MacNaughton counts as "some of South
Africa's most important cultural artefacts of the
20th century" wasn't without problems. Despite
fears about degradation, the tapes had not
been damaged by constant moving.
Rather, the problem was getting the history
right, revealing the meticulous detective work
that restoring South Africa's hidden musical
history demands. Though most tapes had
been carefully annotated, recording engineers
sometimes did not name all players, and
occasionally, the paper record of names
was absent. Just one example from the
compilation was McNaughton being presented
the challenge of identifying which of the three
bassists and two drummers who share the
album credit appear on the specific track. I
reached out to bassist Lionel Beukes, who
spent a weekend listening to the track and
concluded that he couldn't say for certain.
In other cases, artists remained unidentified
because of contractual commitments to other
labels, or the imprint faced restrictions because
of conflicting licensing and distribution deals.
Perhaps the most complex detection trail
surrounded another As-Shams re-release:
Pillay's Shrimp Boats. That first appeared in
1987 when As-Shams resurrected its Mandla
imprint to issue out-of-print titles. Multiple
tracks were brought together to round out the
length of an album; not all the performer credits
travelled with them, and the cover artwork
omitted Pillay in favour of Coetzee.
By pure happenstance, this writer played
the resulting album to the late Robbie
Jansen in Botswana in the late 1980s. "Hey,"
the saxophonist said, "that's me playing
saxophone on Birdland! I always wondered
what happened to that session …" Yet,
Jansen was not named on the sleeve. When
I communicated this to MacNaughton after the
2022 re-release, he contacted everybody still
living he could find who might have memories
to confirm the attribution. Having confirmed it,
the label put new information online.
MacNaughton is extremely sensitive about
the responsibilities of any reissue – not only
to artists but also to music historians and the
truth.
Why this matters
MacNaughton is still digging through the
archives. A second compilation in preparation
features, among others, guitarist Themba
Mokoena, 70s fusion group Spirits Rejoice and
saxophonist Winston "Mankunku" Ngozi. Full
releases are planned for forgotten sessions by
Mbambisa and Moeketsi.
Restoring these masterworks to the public
domain can change our conversations about
South African jazz. Instead of isolated stars,
we hear a community at work: the rich musical
conversations disrupting what has sometimes
been characterised as a "silent" cultural period
under apartheid. Conversing with each other,
with overseas jazz and with tradition, those
players made the music what it is today.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
SOUTH AFRICA'S HIDDEN JAZZ HISTORY IS BEING RESTORED ALBUM BY ALBUM
Conversing with each other, with overseas jazz and with
tradition, those players made the music what it is today.
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 29  108

Mpumalanga, South Africa

The farm is an important
part of World Wine
Heritage and a world-
class international
tourism destination.
It delivers a unique
cultural, social and
historical experience to
locals and tourists alike.
Celebrating 338 years
of South Africa's oldest wine-producing farm
G
root Constantia,
South Africa’s oldest
wine-producing farm,
celebrates its 338th
birthday this year.
From 13 July to the
end of August 2023, it is offering a Vintage
Vault Experience on the estate, offering wine
enthusiasts a unique tasting experience and
the chance to purchase rare and collectable
wines dating back centuries.
It is an opportunity to step back in time
and be part of something truly extraordinary.
The farm is an important part of
World Wine Heritage and a world-class
international tourism destination.
So much so, that it captures the rich
and diverse heritage of South Africa. The
farm delivers a unique cultural, social
and historical experience to locals and
tourists alike. It delivers world-class, quality
wines, sensory encounters and special
experiences.
It is an iconic example of the preservation
of South African culture and heritage.
Since 1685, Groot Constantia has
been producing legendary wines without
interruption, making it a true icon in the
world of South African heritage.
On 13 July 1685, Simon van der Stel, the
Governor of the Cape at the time, founded
Groot Constantia.
Back then, Bordeaux’s famous wine
production area, the Medoc, had not
even been developed, and the renowned
Cabernet Sauvignon wine varietal did not
exist.
Today, Groot Constantia stands tall as one
of South Africa’s most beloved wine farms,
consistently earning accolades, awards and
international recognition.
Every day, during the Vintage Volt
Experience, a fresh selection of wines will
be opened, ensuring that each tasting is a
unique experience.
These tastings take place in the
enchanting arched spaces beneath the
Groot Constantia Manor House, which
dates back to 1778.
The Vintage Vault has an alluring, cool
and mystical atmosphere, making it the
perfect place to store these vinicultural
wonders.
It is fascinating to discover that Groot
Constantia has stored a portion of every
vintage produced over the years. The Vintage
Vault is filled with the finest treasures and
testament to Groot Constantia’s enduring
legacy.
Among the rare wines stored here, is the
iconic Grand Constance wine produced in
1821, the oldest bottle in the vault.
There’s also JP Cloete’s Pontac wine,
which gained acclaim at the International
Exhibition in Paris in 1855, and a few
bottles originally crafted for the Duke of
Northumberland.
Groot Constantia’s wines have a history of
impressing distinguished figures throughout
the centuries. From Louis Philippe, the King
of the French, to Frederick the Great of
Prussia, and even Napoleon himself, these
wines have left a lasting impression.
Not to mention their appearances in
literary works by Charles Dickens and Jane
Austen, where they were celebrated as
the cure for a broken heart or compared
to a lover’s lips. The accolades continue
to pour in, with Groot Constantia’s wines
consistently winning awards worldwide.
The Groot Constantia Chardonnay
2013 was crowned the best in the world at
CELEBRATING 338 YEARS OF SOUTH AFRICA'S OLDEST WINE-PRODUCING FARMCELEBRATING 338 YEARS OF SOUTH AFRICA'S OLDEST WINE-PRODUCING FARM
Groot Constantia is on a mission to preserve and promote the legacy of South
Africa’s wine industry. As a Provincial Heritage Site and a living museum, this
historical estate is under the care of the Groot Constantia Trust.
Chardonnay de Mond and the Sauvignon
Blanc 2019 took home the International
Sauvignon Blanc trophy at the International
Wine Challenge.
But it is not only about the wine.
Groot Constantia is on a mission to
preserve and promote the legacy of South
Africa’s wine industry.
As a Provincial Heritage Site and a living
museum, this historical estate is under the
care of the Groot Constantia Trust.
Sustainability is at the forefront of their
efforts, and they have been recognised
as a World Wildlife Fund Conservation
Champion.
Groot Constantia’s commitment to its
legacy spans more than three centuries and
is poised to continue for another 338 years
and beyond.
Groot Constantia / www.goodthingsguy.com
By Brent Lindeque
www.goodthingsguy.com
UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
112

us to continue on our current trajectory with
every fibre of the restaurant’s being.
"To continue our work with the
communities, the fishermen, the farmers,
the foragers and of course our dedicated
staff who we’ve grown so close to over the
past few years is the real reason why we’ve
won this fantastic award, and I dedicate this
to them.”
The World’s 50 Best Restaurants list,
sponsored by S Pellegrino and Acqua
Panna, is a globally recognised programme
that showcases leading trends and
highlights exceptional restaurants from all
corners of the Earth.
FYN Restaurant named
best sustainable
restaurant in the world
F
YN Restaurant in Cape Town
has been acclaimed as the
world’s most sustainable
restaurant after being
awarded the prestigious
Flor de Caña Sustainable
Restaurant Award at The World’s 50 Best
Restaurants ceremony held in Valencia,
Spain, in June 2023.
The coveted award aims to recognise
restaurants that achieve the highest
environmental and social responsibility
ratings, determined by its audit partner, the
Sustainable Restaurant Association.
FYN Restaurant, which opened in late
2018, was placed 37 on last year’s World’s
50 Best Restaurants list and won two stars at
the Eat Out Woolworths Restaurant Awards
FYN RESTAURANT NAMED BEST SUSTAINABLE RESTAURANT IN THE WORLDFYN RESTAURANT NAMED BEST SUSTAINABLE RESTAURANT IN THE WORLD
The coveted award aims to recognise restaurants that achieve the highest
environmental and social responsibility rantings, determined by its audit
partner, the Sustainable Restaurant Association.
last year. Headed by chef Peter Tempelhoff
and his partners, Ashley Moss and Jennifer
Hugé, FYN has been commended for its far-
reaching philosophy that holds sustainability
at the helm.
Heralded as an “ethical celebration of
South African ingredients” by The World’s
50 Best Restaurants, FYN’s cuisine is a
fusion of South African ingredients and
By Eat Out
Japanese cooking techniques with local
sourcing at its core.
The kaiseki-style menu, consisting of
five waves of courses, pays tribute to the
native ingredients found along the Western
Cape and is intrinsic to the principles of
sustainability employed by the renowned
restaurant. All suppliers are carefully
selected according to criteria of eco-friendly
practices and range from ABALOBI, South
Africa’s first community-supported fishery;
to the regenerative-principled Meuse Farm
for vegetables; Cape Wagyu for free-range,
pasture-reared cattle; and responsibly
harvested dune spinach, sea lettuce and
kelp.
“FYN is about balancing authenticity
and innovation. Through our cuisine,
we’re straddling the fine line between
time-honoured techniques and creating
something quite new,” says Tempelhoff.
“This award is huge for FYN, it’s also
unexpected and I feel a little unprepared for
it ... but, it does lay the gauntlet down for
Heralded as an "ethnical
celebration of South
African ingredients"
by the World's 50
Best Restaurants,
FYN's cuisine is a
fusion of South African
ingredients and
Japanese cooking
techniques with local
sourcing at its core.
The World's 50 Best Restaurants list, sponsored
by S Pellegrino and Acqua Panna, is a globally
recognised programme that showcases leading
trends and highlights exceptional restaurants form
all corners of the Earth.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL  UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL      South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 30
114 115

SOUTH AFRICAN FASHION
travels out of this world
at this year's Durban July
I
f South Africans lived out of this world,
this year’s Durban July proved our
fashion might just be the talk of the
galaxy.
The highly anticipated Durban July,
Africa’s largest horse-racing event,
unfolded over the first weekend in
July at the picturesque Hollywoodbets
Greyville Racecourse in Durban.
Besides horse racing, most guests were
eager to see the fashion. Dressed in their
most stylish designer garments, guests
were treated to a live fashion show where
up-and-coming designers had to compete
and showcase their collections under the
theme: Out of This World.
The Young Designer Award for this year
went to Lwandle Zwezwe from the PMB
School of Fashion. She was awarded a study
bursary, a travel package to Johannesburg
for Fashion Week and more prizes.
Also taking to the fashion podium were
two students from the Durban University
of Technology, Thabiso Ncanana and
Andile Nsele, who came second and third
respectively. Both also earned bursaries for
their breathtaking work.
The Raceday Fashion Awards attracted
huge interest as hundreds entered the
various categories hoping for raceday glory
at the 2023 Hollywoodbets Durban July as
all tried to interpret the Out of This World
theme in their own unique way.
Hollywoodbets Greyville was a hive of
activity for the hopefuls as they entered
the Classic Raceday for Women, Classic
Raceday for Men, Most Striking Couple and
the Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator.
The various entries took the theme in
a number of exciting directions and after
claiming the most Striking Couple Award
for her ensemble, Brenda Waring said that
there was a lot more to creating a winning
number.
“It takes a lot of dedication and hard work
to get a piece into an event like this and I’m
just so overwhelmed that I managed to win,”
Waring said.
“There are a lot of sleepless nights
involved but you have to be confident in
what you do and after this concept came
to me in a dream, I went with it and it’s so
satisfying to win an award like this.”
It was a second win in as many years
for Waring in the Most Striking Couple
Category after she won in 2022 with her
design alongside Pamela Shane.
Second place in the Most Striking Couple
Category went to Tyler Grendon and Kayla
Anne Lindsey who were modelling a number
created by Sanele Mkhize.
Third place went to designer sisters
Catherine and Irene Nolan for their creation
that was modelled by Cyra van der Merwe
and Lungelo Mathonsi.
In the Classic Racewear for Women, it
was Nguni Shades who walked away with
the honours for his creation that was worn
by Minenhle Ngcobo and that was inspired
by the 1850s as the designer picked up
another raceday fashion award.
“It’s great to win this award and to add it
to the other awards that I’ve won here at the
Hollywoodbets Durban July,” Shaun Majola
(Nguni Shades) said.
“It’s not easy to keep creating new ideas
and new designs but with the theme this
year, it really helped me because I wanted
to create something that no one else would
think about.
“The fashion industry is battling in this
country, and we are always trying to stay
alive, so these sorts of events are important
for us,” he added.
Second place in the Classic Racewear
for Women went to Nelly Maduna for
her number that was modelled by Gugu
Sithole while third went to African Fashion

SOUTH AFRICAN FASHION TRAVELS OUT OF THIS WORLD AT THIS YEAR'S DURBAN JULYSOUTH AFRICAN FASHION TRAVELS OUT OF THIS WORLD AT THIS YEAR'S DURBAN JULY
The highly anticipated Durban July 2023, Africa’s largest horse-racing event,
unfolded over the first weekend in July at the picturesque Hollywoodbets
Greyville Racecourse in Durban.
International with model Lwandle Mgwenya.
In the Classic Racewear for Men, first place
went to Kgotsofolo Given Monyamate for
his piece that was shown off by model
Sphosethu Thwala. Second place in this
category went to Mr Dress while this was
taken home by Mr Martin.
Each of the raceday fashion competition
winners took home R5 000 from Gold Circle
and Schweppes and a R2 500 gift card from
the Gateway Theatre of Shopping, while
the second places won R3 000 from Gold
Circle and Schweppes, with the third placed
designers earning R2 000 from Gold Circle
and Schweppes.
www.goodthingsguy.com and
www.hollywoodbetsdurbanjuly.co.za
Besides horse racing,
most guests were
eager to see the
fashion. Dressed in their
most stylish designer
garments, guests were
treated to a live fashion
show where up-and-
coming designers
had to compete
and showcase their
collections under the
theme: Out of This
World.
Issue 30 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action      UBUNTU BRICS SPECIAL
117