seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/2023-2024-annual-performance-plan.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/2023-2024-annual-performance-plan.pdf
title: 2023-2024-annual-performance-plan.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

Department Of International
Relations And Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024

Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
OR Tambo Building
Private Bag X152, Pretoria, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa

I hereby present the Annual Performance Plan (APP) of the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) for the year 2023/24.
The APP is reflective of the priorities in the 2020-2025 Strategic Plan. It consolidates the
gains, remedies the deficiencies of our previous performance and sets out what needs to
be done to achieve the goals included in the Strategic Plan. The execution of our foreign
policy is predicated on the achievement and pursuit of our national priorities in a manner
that contributes positively to the well-being of our people through promoting justice, peace,
and sustainable development in the region, continent and the world.
Unfortunately, our country continues to be faced with economic challenges as a result of
the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and society, the ongoing electricity
crisis and the climate change effect that have caused severe weather patterns necessitating
disaster relief support from government. Effective responses to the triple challenges of
unemployment, poverty and inequality are now more urgent than ever before.
Our government has prioritised increased foreign direct investment into our economy
as a means of creating jobs and stimulating economic growth. This has made economic
diplomacy on the part of our diplomats at home and abroad a top priority as we use all the
levers at our disposal to improve the economic outlook of our country. We will continue to
build on the foundation of the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan, which remains
the roadmap to rebuild the economy.
We commend our diplomats for the sterling work they are doing in marketing South Africa
to the world at a time of fiscal constraints and tight budgets. We urge them to work even
harder as we need to drastically increase levels of trade – both on the continent and with
countries abroad.
Major strides have been made by the private sector in our country to start the process of
Executive Authority Statement
DR GNM PANDOR
Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
2

manufacturing vaccines for the African continent both, within South Africa and in hubs
throughout the continent. This will go a long way towards making Africa more self-
reliant in the face of future health challenges and pandemics.
As we start the new financial year, we continue to confront challenges in the
international arena as a result of the war between Russia and Ukraine that has caused
major tensions in global politics, and seen a rise in food insecurity, high inflation and
job losses. This affects Africa more than any other continent and we are working
hard to ensure that some of Africa’s most glaring challenges in this regard are being
addressed.
We remain concerned about the loss of lives and the deteriorating humanitarian
situation. Peace is our objective and we continue to stress that dialogue, mediation
and diplomacy are the only path to end current conflicts. Wars end when dialogues
begin, and wars endure when there is no dialogue. It is tragic that many of the global
military powers have tended in recent years to use force rather than diplomacy. It has
become the norm to use military might rather than instruments of the United Nations
(UN) Charter, which advocate for diplomacy.
South Africa has maintained our non-aligned position and is not alone in this approach.
Several member states of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) are committed to
remaining non-aligned – an approach many of these countries have taken since
joining NAM in 1961.
South Africa and countries in the global South have resisted becoming embroiled
in the politics of confrontation and aggression that have been advocated by the
powerful countries. Instead, we have promoted peaceful resolution of the conflict
through dialogue and negotiation. South Africa has always opposed violations of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of member states, in keeping with the UN Charter.
NAM members seek to avoid a return to the Cold War divisions. The Cold War was a
painful period in which developing countries were compelled to take sides, which had
negative consequences for them. Hence, they do not wish to see a return to these
tensions and many have chosen to put a distance between themselves and conflicts
that involve the big powers. Many NAM members have declared their commitment to
multilateralism and the pursuit of diplomatic approaches to resolving conflicts.
We will continue to defend the right of sovereign countries to decide for themselves
whether to become drawn into blocs of allies that are embroiled in foreign wars, or
whether to remain outside of these military or political alliances and choose partners
based on their economic and development interests.
South Africa’s foreign policy remains inspired by its history – and the country,
working with others, strives for the attainment of a just, humane and equitable world.
In conducting our international relations, we attach the utmost importance to the
promotion of human rights, democracy, equitable justice and the rule of international
law. The said principles place multilateral institutions, specifically the UN, at the centre
of our foreign policy engagements and objectives.
South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance its
National Interest and safeguard its national positions, as well as advance the
development priorities of developing countries and promote an equitable rules-based
multilateral system, as identified in Priority Seven of the Medium Term Strategic
Framework (MTSF).
South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among countries and groupings
of the South as well as major emerging economies to develop common positions in
addressing our common challenges. We are a proud member of the BRICS grouping,
which we will host this year. We will build on the momentum of 15 years of BRICS
cooperation, which have seen our partnership evolve and expand its mandate
beyond the narrow focus that brought us together to include cooperation across the
three pillars of political and security; economic and financial; and cultural and people-
to-people cooperation. This informed our discussions in Cabinet about our theme
for 2023, namely “BRICS and Africa: Partnership for Mutually Accelerated Growth,
Sustainable Development and Inclusive Multilateralism”.
Our theme and priorities reflect our foreign policy focus on advancing in partnership.
We cannot leave the African continent and the global South behind. We intend to
continue our outreach to the continent and leading members of the global South. One
of the issues, which will be discussed this year within BRICS is how to restructure
the global political, economic and financial architecture to be more balanced,
representative, inclusive and equitable.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
3

In the execution of our foreign policy, South Africa has continued to be a principled exponent of advancing the African Agenda and we will continue this year to enhance regional
integration within the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and on the continent through the African Continental Free Trade Area. South African companies are
poised to play a key role in taking up the opportunities that this presents for preferential access to other African markets. The Free Trade Agreement is about Africa taking charge
of its destiny and growing its economies faster.
Democratic South Africa has always prided itself on having an independent foreign policy that is premised on our values, which include our commitment to the peaceful resolution
of conflicts and our belief in the sovereign equality among states. South Africa continues to be involved in conflict resolution and peacebuilding efforts in Lesotho, Mozambique
and eSwatini, as well as in a number of other conflict zones, both on the continent and abroad.
The department is working to strengthen the institutional capacities to enhance its abilities and implement its strategic objectives for the next five years. This work includes aligning
the structure of the organisation to better implement its strategic plan and the priorities of the MTSF 2019-2024, improving financial management to ensure good stewardship of
its allocated resources in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Management Act and improve people management and the strategic use of digital technology.
Due to the shortfall on the Compensation of Employees budget, most vacancies have not been filled and this is affecting the implementation of the mandate. The department has
also had to review its global footprint in light of financial constraints and we are seeking accreditation on a non-residential basis to contain costs.
In spite of these challenges, I commend our officials on their commitment to excellence and perseverance during these difficult times. We look forward to a more positive outlook
in the years ahead.
DR GNM PANDOR, MP
Executive Authority
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Date: 27 March 2023
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
4

South Africa’s foreign policy is guided by the Constitution and its founding principles.
Foreign policy is an important tool that contributes to the realisation of the National
Development Plan (NDP): Vision 2030 through the Medium Term Strategic Framework
(MTSF). On the basis of our identity as an African country, South Africa’s foreign policy
is driven by a clear and critical understanding of our national, regional and continental
priorities in a multipolar world where the geostrategic politics of the continent are becoming
increasingly central to global political and economic competition for natural resources and
market share. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO), being
the lead department in pursuit of South Africa’s foreign policy objectives, needs to manage
and coordinate the other domestic role players contributing, directly or indirectly, to the
achievement thereof.
The strategic focus of DIRCO is guided by the NDP: Vision 2030, as unpacked in the
MTSF 2019 – 2024, which is in line with the African Union’s (AU) Agenda 2063, the
Southern African Development Community Regional Indicative Strategic Development
Plan (RISDP) and the United Nation’s (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030
Agenda. The department is further guided by the policy directives of South Africa’s political
principals, especially the President’s State of the Nation Address.
Reflection on 2022/23
The COVID-19 pandemic had a severe impact on most socio-economic activities globally.
It has been estimated that the pandemic has pushed back the attainment of the 2030
SDGs for less-developed economies by a decade. In addition, crises, such as the war in
Ukraine and the global energy crisis, pose a threat of global recession.
Economic growth is variable across the globe, with post-COVID recovery expected to
be stronger in developed economies, but not in emerging economies. Oil prices have
been volatile. Global supply chains have become more complex and complicated due to
COVID-19 and unilateral sanctions against the Russian Federation. It is expected that
Accounting Officer Statement
MR Z DANGOR
Director-General
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
5

global growth, trade and investment will stabilise during 2023, but the energy crisis
could still trigger a global recession. It is clear that COVID-19 has had a severe
economic impact worldwide.
Priorities for 2023/24
Unfortunately, as we start this new financial year, the economic challenges we face
as a country, as a result of the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic, persist.
Thousands of South Africans have died from the virus and our economy, like that of the
global economy, has been put under severe strain. Now, more than ever, South Africa
has to grapple with the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality.
DIRCO will, therefore, during 2023/24, continue with its focus on economic diplomacy
in support of the President’s initiatives. This work will build on the foundation of the
Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan (ERRP), which remains the common
programme to rebuild the economy.
DIRCO also has to contend with an environment that is interlinked with regional,
continental and global developments, fluctuations and disruptions. South Africa’s
foreign policy is implemented within a highly dynamic and challenging global
environment, which at times is unpredictable. As a result, DIRCO has to critically reflect
on its successes and failures, both internally and externally, to inform the 2023/24
planning priorities in the context of the 2020/25 strategic priorities the department had
identified for itself in October 2019.
Because of the tight link between South Africa’s National Interest and Africa’s stability,
unity and prosperity, the African Agenda is at the centre of our foreign policy trajectory.
South Africa remains a relevant and significant player in issues relating to the regional
agenda, both through various bilateral, as well as multilateral platforms.
During 2023/24, DIRCO will continue to work towards contributing to the improvement
of the lives of all South Africans through the promotion of increased inward tourism,
trade and investment opportunities from our bilateral partners, in line with the ERRP.
As South Africa’s foreign policy implementation is guided and shaped by its National
Interest, we will continue to utilise high-level bilateral meetings to advance our wide-
ranging objectives in these specific fields. DIRCO’s international network of missions is
a strategic asset that is being leveraged to realise maximum return on the investment
it represents for the people of South Africa.
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa’s foreign policy. South Africa’s
multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance its National Interest
and safeguard its national positions, as well as advance the development priorities
of developing countries and promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system,
as identified in Priority Seven of the MTSF. South Africa will continue to advocate for
the reform of global governance institutions, as well as to promote participation in
selected multilateral fora outside the UN system, to contribute to the strengthening of
multilateralism.
As a demonstration of its unwavering commitment to peace, stability, security, respect
for human rights, democracy and good governance, South Africa assumed a two-
year membership of the AU Peace and Security Council (AUPSC) in April 2022.
Membership of South Africa in the AUPSC came at a time when the African continent
and the world are faced with a myriad of challenges, including the rise in incidents of
terrorism, violent extremism and radicalisation. This has now become prevalent in all
African regions, including in the southern African and Sahel regions, the latter being
the most affected area. The attacks linked to terrorism and violent extremism have led
to killings, maiming and displacements of thousands of innocent civilians.
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is informed by the realisation that the UN
does not reflect current global political and economic realities. Hence, a key priority in
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the existing global
governance architecture with a view to improving its responsiveness to the needs of,
and challenges faced by, developing states.
South Africa’s participation in the Human Rights Council (HRC) for the period
2023 ‒ 2025 will continue to be inspired by our strategic objectives. This is where
South Africa can play a constructive and meaningful role and promote international
cooperation and multilateralism in the field of human rights. The main aim of South
Africa’s membership and participation in the HRC is to achieve the following foreign
policy goals: (a) to pursue South Africa’s National Interest (b) to promote our values,
(c) to contribute to the development of a rules-based system of interstate relations
(multilateralism); and (d) to help create a global environment that is conducive to
peace, development, respect for the rule of international law, advancement of human
rights and freedoms, and the development of Africa.
Regarding South-South cooperation, South Africa pursues mutually beneficial
cooperation among countries and groupings of the South to develop common positions
on political, economic, social and human rights issues as an effective response in
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
6

addressing the historic marginalisation of these countries. South Africa will continue
to leverage strategic regional groupings such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa (BRICS); India, Brazil, South Africa (IBSA); and the Indian Ocean
Rim Association (IORA) to improve trade flows and build consensus in multilateral
groupings. As the only African country in the G20 and BRICS, as well as being one
of the top 10 strategic partners of the European Union, South Africa will, during its
Chairship of BRICS in 2023, continue placing the African continent and the global
South on the agenda of BRICS to synchronise policies, such as Agenda 2063 and the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
South Africa also maintains strong political relations with the countries of the Americas,
Europe, Asia and the Middle East, and these partnerships contribute tangibly towards
progress on the priorities identified in the NDP.
DIRCO, as a national department, is committed to sound corporate governance
and has developed various internal control mechanisms to strengthen corporate
governance. Internally, there are various management structures and committees
in place with terms of reference that meet on a regular basis. These management
structures serve as mechanisms to improve corporate governance and decision-
making and enhance communication.
During 2023/24, the department will continue to deliver a professional Protocol Service
to the President, Deputy President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International
Relations and Cooperation, as well as other Cabinet ministers and departments. It
also provides an advisory service to all spheres of government on all matters related
to Protocol.
Despite the above, it should be noted that the Annual Performance Plan for 2022/23
is being delivered in an environment that is still characterised by fiscal constraints.
The department has embarked on a process to develop identified systems to improve
operations’ efficiencies and effectiveness in automating business processes. There
have been marginal improvements in the implementation of the Digital Strategy
2020 – 2025, where several ICT infrastructure projects have been implemented. The
remainder of these projects will be finalised in the next financial year.
I am pleased to announce that the department showed an improvement with regard
to the audit opinion, moving from a qualified opinion to an unqualified opinion with
matters of emphasis. The department will continue efforts to improve internal controls
to work towards achieving a clean audit.
I also wish to inform that the department is continuing with the process of organisational
renewal as a tool to assist the organisation to achieve its identified strategic objectives.
This has required of the department to review and finalise its organisational structure
to align the structure with its Strategic Plan and the priorities of the MTSF 2019 –
2024.
The Foreign Service Act 26 of 2019 (the “Act”) and its Regulations came into force on
25 August 2022. The purpose of the Act is to professionalise the Foreign Service and
provide a legislative mandate to the department by providing for the management,
administration, accountability and functioning of a professional Foreign Service and
the operational requirements that are suitable and supportive of the operations of
the Foreign Service in a global environment. I am pleased to confirm that this is
the first time that South Africa has legislation that governs its Foreign Service and
that mandates the department to lead and coordinate the international relations of
the Republic on all spheres of government and on bilateral, regional and multilateral
levels. This will ensure coherent foreign policy implementation. During 2023/24,
DIRCO will develop coordination guidelines and measures to enable it to fulfil its
mandate.
During 2023/24, the department, guided by South Africa’s foreign policy objectives
and National Interest, intends to continue taking a leading role in entrenching women
and youth’s rights as fundamental human rights critical for the full realisation of
inclusive and sustainable development.
As the Accounting Officer, I hereby undertake to ensure appropriate governance,
systems and processes to implement the Annual Performance Plan.
MR Z DANGOR
Accounting Authority
Director-General
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
Date: 27 March 2023
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
7

It is hereby certified that this Strategic Plan:
• was developed by the management of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) under the guidance of the Minister
• takes into account all the relevant policies, legislation and other mandates for which DIRCO is responsible
• accurately reflects the impact, outcomes and outputs, which DIRCO will endeavour to achieve over the period 2023 – 2024.
Deputy Director-General Signature Deputy Director-General Signature
Ms T Mokuena
Acting Deputy Director-General:
Africa
Mr TC Monyela
Acting Deputy Director-General:
Corporate Management
Amb M Dlomo
Deputy Director-General:
Americas and Europe
Amb M Dlomo
Acting Deputy Director-General:
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development
Amb NM Lallie
Acting Deputy Director-General:
Asia and Middle East
Mr TC Monyela
Deputy Director-General:
Public Diplomacy
Mr LL Ndimeni
Acting Deputy Director-General:
Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Amb NN Losi
Chief of State Protocol and
Consular Services
Name Signature Name Signature
Ms H Bhengu
Acting Chief Financial Officer:
Deputy Director-General Financial and Asset Management
Mr Z Dangor
Director-General
Ms S Baloi-Mmola
Head Official responsible for Planning:
Acting Chief Operations Officer
Approved by: Dr GNM Pandor
Executive Authority
Official Sign-Off
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
8

Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
9

Table of Contents
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
10
PART A: OUR MANDATE
1. Updates to the Relevant Legislative and Policy Mandate 14
2. Updates to Institutional Policies and Strategies 15
3. Updates to Relevant Court Rulings 15
PART B: STRATEGIC FOCUS
4. Updated Situational Analysis 18
4.1 External Environment Analysis 18
4.2 Internal Environment Analysis 34
PART C: MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE
5. Institutional Performance Information 40
Programme 1: Administration 40
Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators and Targets 41
Explanation of Planned Performance over the Medium-Term Planning Period 45
Resource Considerations 46
Programme 2: International Relations 48
Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators and Targets 49
Explanation of Planned Performance over the Medium-Term Planning Period 53
Resource Considerations 54

Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
11
Programme 3: International Cooperation 56
Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators and Targets 57
Explanation of Planned Performance over the Medium-Term Planning Period 62
Resource Considerations 64
Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services 66
Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators and Targets 66
Explanation of Planned Performance over the Medium-Term Planning Period 69
Resource Considerations 70
Programme 5: International Transfers 72
Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators and Targets 72
Explanation of Planned Performance over the Medium-Term Planning Period 73
Resource Considerations 74
6. Updated Key Risks 75
7. Public Entities 76
8. Infrastructure Projects 77
9. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) 78
PART D: TECHNICAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION (TID)
Glossary of Terminology 105
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms 113
Annexure 115

PART A
Our Mandate

1. Updates to the Relevant Legislative
and Policy Mandate
1.1 Constitutional Mandate
1.1.1 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 is the supreme law
of the Republic and all law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid. The
President is ultimately responsible for South Africa’s foreign policy and it
is the President’s prerogative to appoint heads of South Africa’s diplomatic
missions, receive foreign heads of diplomatic missions, conduct inter-state
relations and enter into international agreements.
1.1.2 The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation (Minister), in
accordance with her Cabinet portfolio responsibilities, is entrusted with the
formulation, promotion and execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The
Minister assumes overall responsibility for all aspects of South Africa’s
international relations in consultation with the President. In practice, the
Minister consults the Cabinet and individual Cabinet ministers on aspects
of importance, as well as on cross-cutting issues that have a bearing on the
programmes of other ministries and departments.
1.1.3 Oversight and accountability in the formulation and conduct of South Africa’s
foreign policy are vested in the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on
International Relations and Cooperation.
1.2 Legislative mandates
1.2.1 The Foreign States Immunities Act, 1981 (Act 87 of 1981): This Act regulates
the extent of the immunity of foreign states from the jurisdiction of the courts
of the Republic and provides for matters connected therewith.
1.2.2 The Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2001): The Act
provides for the immunities and privileges of diplomatic missions and consular
posts and their members, of heads of states, special envoys and certain
representatives of the United Nations and its specialised agencies, and other
international organisations and of certain other persons. Provision is also
made for immunities and privileges pertaining to international conferences
and meetings. It enacts into law certain conventions and provides for matters
connected therewith.
1.2.3 The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 2001 (Act
51 of 2001): The Act establishes an African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF) to enhance cooperation between the Republic
and other countries, in particular African countries, through the promotion
of democracy, good governance, the prevention and resolution of conflict,
socio-economic development and integration, humanitarian assistance and
human resource development.
1.2.4 International agreements (multilateral and bilateral): These include
international agreements concluded by the Republic of South Africa in terms
of sections 231(2) and 231(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, 1996.
1.2.5 President Cyril Ramaphosa signed into law the Foreign Service Act (FSA),
2019 (Act 26 of 2019), which was gazetted on 4 June 2020. The Act provides
for the administration, accountability and functioning of a professional
foreign service of the Republic of South Africa that will be managed by
the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO). The
legislation governs the operational requirements that are suitable and
supportive of the operations of the Foreign Service in a global environment.
The Foreign Service is tasked with promoting and advancing South Africa’s
international relations and cooperation by representing the Republic in an
effective, coherent and comprehensive manner abroad. The regulations are
currently being drafted to guide the implementation of the FSA, 2019.
1.3 Policy mandates
1.3.1 The Measures & Guidelines for Enhanced Coordination of South Africa’s
International Engagements  and its annexures, approved by Cabinet in
2009, establish more effective measures and mechanisms to coordinate the
conduct of international relations and the implementation of South Africa’s
foreign policy.
1.3.2 The National Information Security Policy, approved by Cabinet in 1996,
provides the minimum standards for security.
1.3.3 The White Paper on Foreign Policy, approved by Cabinet in 2011, assesses
South Africa’s foreign policy against the rising expectations of the critical role
of foreign policy to meet domestic priorities.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
14

1.3.4 Foreign Service Dispensation (FSD) is implemented in terms of the
provisions of Section 3(3) (c) of the Public Service Act, 1994 (Act 103 of
1994), as amended, and is applicable to designated employees who serve in
a foreign country at a South African mission abroad and fall within the scope
of the Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council. The FSD consists
mainly of two measures, namely remunerative measures (South Africa) and
compensatory measures and other foreign-service benefits at the missions.
1.3.5 The Gender Responsive Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation
and Auditing Framework, approved by Cabinet in 2018, provides for
comprehensive instruments for strengthening the mainstreaming of gender
perspectives within the planning and budgeting processes.
1.3.6 The Framework Document on South Africa’s National Interest and its
Advancement in Global Environment  proposes a definition of South Africa’s
National Interest and its elements, the means for the pursuit of South Africa’s
National Interest, guidelines for the practical application of South Africa’s
National Interest in an international environment, reflects on the current and
potential future global environment and provides for predictability in South
Africa’s international relations.
2. Updates To Institutional Policies And
Strategies
 The revival of the process on the Partnership
Fund for Development Bill
The Partnership Fund for Development Bill aimed at repealing the African
Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 200 (Act 51 of
2000) will be revived. DIRCO continues to support South Africa’s outgoing
development cooperation policy by providing funding and technical support
for development initiatives.
3. Updates To Relevant Court Rulings
 In matters of the Supreme Court:
1) In the matter of the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation and
two others v Simeka Group (Pty) Ltd and four others, the application was
launched by the Minister on 10 October 2018 to have the tender award for
the appointment of a development partner in New York, reviewed and set
aside (including the Project Preparation Agreement). Judgment was given
in April 2021 and decided against the Minister. The Minister’s application
for leave to appeal was heard on 10 May 2021 and judgment was given in
favour of the Minister for appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). The
SCA hearing date was subjected to the finalisation of the record, the lodging
of heads and the Rule 10A Practice Note, the lodging of the respondents (in
the appeal) heads, and the allocation of judges. The matter was heard in the
SCA on 16 August 2022 and judgment is awaited.
2) In the matter Elliot Mobility (Pty) Ltd and New Thando Elliot Mobility
(Pty) Ltd Joint Venture (NTEM) v Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, the department brought an application in the High Court
to have the arbitration award handed down in NTEM’s favour set aside.
Although settlement discussions took place in advance of the hearing, NTEM
rejected the department’s initial offer of settlement and then withdrew from
the discussions when it became clear that the parties to the joint venture
had divergent views on what would constitute a fair outcome. The hearing of
the review application proceeded on 17 and 18 June 2021.  Judgment was
received on 4 October 2022 and the department’s review application was
not successful. The department is appealing the decision and the date for
hearing for the appeal is awaited.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
15

Our Strategic Focus
PART B

4. Updated Situational Analysis
4.1 External environment analysis
South Africa’s foreign policy vision is to achieve an African continent that is peaceful,
democratic, non-racial, non-sexist, united and prosperous and which contributes to
a world that is just and equitable. South Africa pursues this policy vision, guided by
the African values of Ubuntu and the central goal to eradicate the triple challenge of
inequality, poverty and unemployment.
The strategic focus of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) is guided by the National Development Plan (NDP): Vision 2030, as
unpacked in the Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF) 2019 – 2024, which is in
line with the African Union’s (AU) Agenda 2063, the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) and
the United Nation’s (UN) 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The department is further guided by the policy directives of South Africa’s political
principals, especially the President’s State of the Nation Address and the Framework
Document on South Africa’s National Interest and its Advancement in a Global
Environment.
The Sixth Administration identified seven priorities, which are contained in the MTSF.
During the execution of South Africa’s foreign policy, DIRCO will contribute to all
seven MTSF priorities, but focus on the seventh priority, “A Better Africa and World”.
DIRCO will implement its mandate, which requires the formulation, promotion and
execution of South Africa’s foreign policy by means of traditional political diplomacy
complemented by, among others, economic diplomacy. This approach will enable
DIRCO to increasingly contribute, in a more direct and concrete manner, to inclusive
economic growth, improving the capabilities of South Africans and a capable state.
During 2021 and 2022, South Africa, like most of the world, was still affected by the
COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic had a severe impact on most socio-economic
activities globally. There has been a reduction in global trade, including manufacturing
and transportation; an increase in unemployment; devastation of the tourism,
hospitality, entertainment and sporting industries; and education on all levels has
been widely disrupted.
It has been estimated that the pandemic has pushed back the attainment of the 2030
SDGs for less-developed economies by a decade. Poverty and inequality, both within
and between states, have been further exacerbated, especially by a diminution of
opportunities because of travel and educational restrictions.
While the COVID pandemic appears to be subsiding and trade and travel restrictions
have been lifted in most parts of the world, new outbreaks could take place at any
time and other crises such as the war in the Ukraine and the global energy crisis pose
a threat of global recession.
Economic prospects for 2023
The Russia-Ukraine conflict compromised the recovery trends that followed after
the COVID-19 pandemic and brought significant commodity price increases, historic
inflation rates, more supply chain disruptions, a refugee crisis at the centre of Europe
and renewed energy security challenges.
According to a forecast by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD), the global economy should avoid a recession in 2023.
Economic and energy security concerns and tightening financial conditions will,
however, lead to a further slowdown in global economic growth from 3.1% in 2022 to
2.2% in 2023, with Europe affected the most.
The Russia-Ukraine war has disrupted global markets for fossil resources, including
gas and coal. If the war in Ukraine becomes more prolonged, the relocation of supply
chains may lead to a new structure of the world economy.
In its World Economic Outlook (WEO), published on 31 January 2023, the International
Monetary Fund reported that global growth was projected to fall from an estimated
3.4% in 2022 to 2.9% in 2023, then rise to 3.1% in 2024. The forecast for 2023 is
0.2 percentage point higher than predicted in the October 2022 WEO, but below the
historical (2000–19) average of 3.8%. The rise in central bank rates to fight inflation
and Russia’s war in Ukraine continue to weigh in on economic activity. The rapid
spread of COVID-19 in China dampened growth in 2022, but the recent reopening
has paved the way for a faster-than-expected recovery. Global inflation is expected
to fall from 8.8% in 2022 to 6.6% in 2023 and 4.3% in 2024, still above pre-pandemic
(2017–2019) levels of about 3.5%.
The balance of risks remains tilted to the downside, but adverse risks have moderated
since the October 2022 WEO. On the upside, a stronger boost from pent-up demand
in numerous economies or a faster fall in inflation are plausible. On the downside,
severe health outcomes in China could hold back the recovery, Russia’s war in
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
18

Ukraine could escalate and tighter global financing costs could worsen debt distress.
Financial markets could also suddenly reprice in response to adverse inflation news,
while further geopolitical fragmentation could hamper economic progress.
In most economies, amid the cost-of-living crisis, the priority remains achieving
sustained disinflation. With tighter monetary conditions and lower growth potentially
affecting financial and debt stability, it is necessary to deploy macroprudential tools
and strengthen debt restructuring frameworks. Accelerating COVID-19 vaccinations
in China would safeguard the recovery, with positive cross-border spill-overs. Fiscal
support should be better targeted at those most affected by elevated food and
energy prices, and broad-based fiscal relief measures should be withdrawn. Stronger
multilateral cooperation is essential to preserve the gains from the rules-based
multilateral system and to mitigate climate change by limiting emissions and raising
green investment.
The latest edition of the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) Global Risks Report was
released on 11 January 2023. At the launch of the report in London, leading experts
set out the major risks the world is facing right now ‒ and up to a decade into the future.
They also shared insights on how best the world could mitigate the economic, political
and social threats arising from these risks. The Managing Director at the WEF said:
“Today, the energy crisis is at the very top of the risk register, followed by the food
crisis and the cost of living. Two years out, though, the experts are still expecting that
the cost of living is going to be the number one risk on the global agenda. Ten years
out, six of the top 10 global risks are dominated by climate and the environmental
risks and the risks associated with that, such as large-scale involuntary migration”.
Global environment and trends
Having recognised the focus of the NDP, MTSF and South Africa’s foreign policy
objectives, DIRCO has to contend with a dynamic, challenging and often unpredictable
subregional, continental and global environment.
There are global challenges that do not respect national boundaries, such as climate
change and environmental crises, and no state can address these alone. Solutions
can only be found when all states and stakeholders work together. This underscores
the importance of a predictable, equitable and rules-based multilateral system and
working towards the reform of global governance to give developing countries their
rightful place in decision-making.
The international context for forging new multilateral agreements or implementing
existing ones is extremely difficult due to geopolitical rivalries and tensions. However,
notable gains in multilateral negotiations were still achieved by the international
community in 2022 as in-person meetings resumed, offering hope for progressive
outcomes in 2023 and 2024.
For African and other developing countries, the priority is to secure at-scale, predictable
and appropriate funding streams to achieve their sustainable development and just
transitions objectives. Developing countries require access to funding without further
exacerbating the debt crisis. This necessitates that developed countries honour their
commitments to provide support and that the international financial architecture is
fundamentally transformed and multilateral development banks reformed to make
them fit-for-purpose in supporting sustainable development.
COVID-19 caught the world unaware and brought about rapid and wide-spread
changes. The evolving variants are a signal that COVID-19 will be a long-term situation
that has to be adjusted to. The unequal distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, especially
to countries of the global South, is a source of concern. Moreover, vaccines need
to be developed or co-produced in more developing countries that further require
indigenous capacity and resources for the full health system to address COVID
and other health threats, including HIV/AIDS and malaria. The COVID pandemic
demonstrated both the positives of the international system, where great strides
in scientific advancement were made, such as in developing new vaccines and in
identifying new strains, including by internationally renowned specialists located in
the global South, but also saw a rise in nationalistic and protectionist approaches and
attitudes that set back sustainable development and global recovery. The pandemic
highlighted that the developing counties could not count on international support alone
and needed to also become more significant developers and exporters of technology
and beneficiators of raw materials.
The current global environment is characterised by a rise in new technologies
and increased technological asymmetry; ongoing terrorism and violent extremism;
tensions over the peaceful use of nuclear technology; threats of the illegal use of
force; transnational organised crime; the displacement of populations due to civil
conflict; global irregular and illegal migration due to conflicts, poverty and inequality,
perpetuated by pandemics and famine ; the rise in populism; tensions over the control
of strategic resources; and geopolitical influence and trade wars.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
19

There has also been an increasing trend towards unilateralism, protectionism,
nationalism, populism and an inward focus on domestic priorities. Strong tendencies
to pursue national interests and the fragmentation of global decision-making are
emerging.
Technological developments
The digital revolution is transforming lives. The COVID-19 pandemic has acted both
as a catalyst and an accelerator for global technology advancement and application
and skills development, as have major international cooperation projects on science
and innovation, such as the Square Kilometer Array, located in South Africa and
Australia. The ongoing unprecedented rapid development of new technology, in
particular the fifth-generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks, the
Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (AI), robotics,
energy storage, quantum computing, material science, biotechnology, 3-D printing
and nanotechnology, mean that South Africa must continuously assess what the
positive and negative impact would be for the country to ensure a resilient future. The
IoT has a total potential global economic impact of between US$3.9 trillion to US$11.1
trillion a year by 2025. Business-to-business (B2B) applications will account for 70%
of value. Developing economies could potentially generate nearly 40% of the IoT’s
value. The digital revolution will promote gains in efficiencies and productivity, but
also disrupt almost every South African industry in terms of employment. The digital
revolution demands a labour force that has high technology skills but can also lead
to a reduced labour force and jobless economic growth and relocation of workers.
South Africa therefore needs to position itself to better exploit the enormous potential
of cyber for development. At the same time, South Africa is keenly aware of cyber
threats, ranging from fake news to attacks on infrastructure to the applications of
technologies in modern warfare, as well as the high prevalence internationally of
cybercrimes.
These “tech” opportunities and challenges tend to be transnational in nature, making
it impossible for individual states to effectively respond on their own, thus requiring
collective action through diplomatic engagement and multilateralism.
Multilateralism
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa’s foreign policy. South Africa’s
multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance its National Interest
and safeguard its national positions, as well as advance the development priorities
of African and other developing countries and promote an equitable rules-based
multilateral system, as identified in Priority Seven of the MTSF. To influence multilateral
processes to reflect and advance these priorities, South Africa must be represented
in multilateral fora to engage, influence, negotiate and articulate its positions with the
aim to have these positions reflected in the outcomes of multilateral meetings and
processes.
As a demonstration of its unwavering commitment to peace, stability, security, respect
for human rights, democracy and good governance, South Africa assumed the two-
year membership of the African Union Peace and Security Council (AUPSC) in April
2022. Membership of South Africa in the AUPSC came at a time when the African
continent and the world are faced with a myriad of challenges, including the rise in
incidents of terrorism, violent extremism and radicalisation. This has now spread to
all the African regions, including the southern African region and the Sahel region,
which has been the most affected area. The attacks linked to terrorism and violent
extremism have led to killings, maiming and displacements of thousands of innocent
civilians.
In the past two years, Africa has witnessed the resurgence of unconstitutional changes
of government. For a long time, the issue of unconstitutional changes of government
was a thing of the past as Africa’s good governance and democratisation process had
gained traction and made significant achievements. However, within a short space
of time, there has been a regression in this process, as the rise of coups d’état and
attempted coups has been witnessed. During its tenure in the AUPSC, South Africa
has, among others, endeavoured to ensure that AU is a rules-based organisation in
line with its Constitutive Act.
Expected multilateral trends include:
• Climate change, environmental crises and the COVID-19 pandemic have
underlined the importance of multilateral cooperation.
• The COVID-19 pandemic has made the attainment of the SDGs 2030 Agenda
and Agenda 2063 unlikely within the set timeline.
• A multipolar world continues to emerge with accompanying tensions.
• Reform of the UN and other global governance bodies is still facing resistance
from large states.
• The Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and the G77 and China lack cohesion to
enable the global South to unlock its full potential to influence global governance
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
20

structures. The war in the Ukraine is revisiting the question of whether
developing countries could reunite under the concept of not being aligned to
the strategic interests of major powers and instead focus on advancing their
own independent national and collective interests.
• Developed countries prefer to set the international agenda and shape outcomes
through the G7 and other plurilateral bodies they dominate, such as the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO).
• The G20 is becoming more influential beyond its original economic mandate,
but developed countries expect it to rubber-stamp G7 positions.
• Conflict resolution still depends on the UN or regional peacekeepers to bring
about stability.
• The AU is making progress with the integration of the continent e.g. through
the African Court of Justice and Human Rights and the African Continental
Free Trade Agreement.
It would, however, appear that multilateralism is increasingly under threat, resulting
in stalemates on issues in fora such as the UN, International Monetary Fund (IMF),
World Trade Organisation (WTO), World Bank (WB), World Intellectual Property
Organisation (WIPO) and the World Health Organisation (WHO).
Human rights, South Africa and the international context
South Africa’s engagement with the world, in this case, in the field of human rights, is
always informed and guided by a number of considerations and factors, including: (a)
the supreme law of the land, the Constitution, (b) the national interests as articulated in
important policy frameworks of our government, including the National Development
Plan (NDP), specifically, Chapter 7 (“Positioning South Africa in the world.”), as well
as (c) the commitments contained in the African Agenda 2063 (the Africa we want).
One of the fundamental commitments the people of South Africa made when they
adopted the Constitution as the supreme law of the land is that we should “build a
united and democratic South Africa able to take its rightful place as a sovereign [and
responsible] state in the family of nations” (Preamble to the Constitution). By making
that commitment, the people of South Africa, through their government, wanted to
confirm to the whole world that some of the key considerations that would inform
South Africa’s foreign policy (in this case, in the field of human rights) would be,
among others, that:
• South Africa shall no longer be a pariah and rogue state in the eyes of the
international community
• South Africa shall no longer be associated with violations and denial of rights
and freedoms
• South Africa shall be a cooperative member of the family of nations and will be
willing to be bound by and respect the rule of international law
• South Africa shall play a constructive role in international politics and will put
its shoulder to the wheel and help develop the kind of norms, standards and
values at the multilateral level (in this case, in the field of human rights) that
will foster respect for human dignity, promote human rights, empower women,
fight gender-based violence and end racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and all forms of intolerance
• South Africa shall no longer use its sovereignty to violate international law
(international human rights law, international humanitarian law and the
international law of protection).
South Africa’s participation in the Human Rights Council (HRC) for the period 2023 ‒
2025 will continue to be inspired by the above considerations and strategic objectives.
The HRC is an important multilateral arena where South Africa can and must “take
its rightful place as a sovereign [and responsible] state” and pursue its foreign policy
objectives and promote its values. This is where South Africa can play a constructive
and meaningful role and promote international cooperation and multilateralism in the
field of human rights. The HRC will provide a platform for South Africa to participate
in the development of norms and standards in the field of human rights that will foster
the promotion, protection and practical realisation/enjoyment of all human rights by
all people across the world. Given South Africa’s commitment to multilateralism, its
presence in the HRC will provide space to push for the transformation of the global
system of governance from the power-based system to a rules-based system and
to enhance the efforts to create a just and equitable global order. Thus, the HRC
constitutes an important terrain within which to pursue South Africa’s national interests
and to influence the future direction of the global system of governance.
The Constitution states that the Bill of Rights is a “cornerstone of democracy in South
Africa” and affirms the democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom
(section7(1) of the Constitution). Further, the Constitution places an obligation on the
State to “respect, protect, promote and fulfil the rights in the Bill of Rights”. (section
7(2) of the Constitution). It is important to note that the obligation on the State to
“respect, protect, promote and fulfil the rights in the Bill of Rights” is stated without
limitation; that is, the obligation is not only limited to the actions, decisions and policies
of the South African Government in the domestic setting, but that this obligation rests
on the South African Government even when it acts beyond its territorial boundaries
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
21

in the field of foreign policy.
The main aim of South Africa’s membership and participation in the HRC is to achieve
the following foreign policy goals:
• to pursue South Africa’s national interests
• to promote our values
• to contribute to the development of a rules-based system of interstate relations
(multilateralism)
• to help create a global environment that is conducive to peace, development,
respect for the rule of international law, advancement of human rights and
freedoms and the development of Africa.
In the HRC, South Africa will focus on thematic areas that resonate with priorities
such as:
• advancement, promotion, protection and practical enjoyment of human rights
(including the rights of women, children and persons with disabilities)
• elimination of gender-based violence
• addressing socio-economic inequalities
• combatting racism and racial discrimination
• protection of the rights of migrants, refugees, children and other persons of
concern, as well promoting access to the right of everyone to the highest
standards of physical and mental health, including access to medicines and
vaccines.
South Africa’s tenure in the HRC (2023 ‒ 2025) will also focus on the full and effective
implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action (DDPA) as a
component of global efforts towards the elimination of racism, racial discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance. To this end, South Africa will continue to:
• Take a lead in the implementation and follow-up to the programme of activities
of the Decade of People of African Descent (2015 ‒ 2024).
• Support the activities and programmes of the newly established Forum on
People of African Descent.
• Ensure that the aims, objectives and mandate of the DDPA are realised. South
Africa will also play a key role in the processes to start negotiations on the
Declaration on the Rights of People of African Descent.
The HRC is set to be “reviewed” during the period 2021 ‒ 2026. Although the fullest
terms of this “review” have not yet been defined, it is anticipated – based on the views
of other countries, particularly Western countries – that the latter group of countries
will push for far-reaching changes to the mandate of the HRC and seek to eliminate
some of the items that are currently on the agenda of the council. For instance, the
US has already nailed its colours to the mast by publicly indicating that Washington
will seek to eliminate the item (item number 7) on the agenda of the council that
deals with the question of Palestine and other occupied Arab territories, as well as
the question of racism (item number 9). As far as South Africa is concerned, the
“review” of the HRC should aim to preserve the mandate of the council and keep
intact the items dealing with the question of Palestine and racism and other forms of
intolerance. The anti-racism agenda is an important flagship programme for South
Africa, given the responsibility we have in this regard following the outcomes of the
2001 Durban World Conference Against Racism. Any attempts by other countries to
delete these important items from the agenda of an important institution such as the
HRC should be resisted. At the time when racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia
and other forms of intolerance are raising their ugly heads, all efforts should be made
to ensure that the international community is focussed and committed to joining the
fight to rid the world of these scourges. South Africa will play a key role in the HRC
and champion this fight.
Humanitarian affairs, South Africa and the international context
South Africa is the biggest humanitarian actor on the continent and will continue to
hold this position for the time to come. The main areas of focus in South Africa’s
humanitarian diplomacy include: international humanitarian law (IHL), migration,
refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs), food security and nutrition, disasters
and humanitarian assistance.
South Africa will cooperate with its global and regional partners to promote respect for
and observance of IHL with the objective of ensuring that human rights are protected
during peace times and conflict times.
South Africa will continue to pursue its National Interest and promote its values in
the areas of humanitarian diplomacy, IHL, international law of protection (refugees),
migration, IDPs, food security and nutrition and humanitarian assistance within the
multilateral system of global governance.
Amid high levels of international migration, unprecedented levels of displacement with
the majority of the displaced on the African continent, as well as a growing intolerance
globally towards refugees and migrants, including the lasting and devastating impacts
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
22

of the COVID-9 pandemic, South Africa will continue to advocate, prioritise and work
towards safe, orderly and regular migration, both regionally and globally, with our
international and national stakeholders.
Furthermore, South Africa advocates for the strengthening of compliance with
IHL during a time where new and emerging conflicts are growing and threatening
international peace and security.
Every year, southern Africa and the rest of the continent experience phenomena of
natural disasters, including cyclones, floods and droughts. These situations are further
excarcebated by climate change, resulting in food insecurity and the displacement
of people, resulting in humanitarian crisis with a heightened need for humanitarian
assistance. In this regard, South Africa will prioritise the hosting of the UN Humanitarian
Depot, which will further contribute to humanitarian responses globally.
In the mid of the continuing armed conflicts across the world, many remain food
insecure and others live in famine-like conditions. In this regard, South Africa will
continue to play a critical role in ensuring that issues of food security and nutrition are
addressed at multilateral levels.
United Nations
With its near universal membership and vast agenda, the UN remains the most
important multilateral institution and the centre of global governance. Therefore,
engagement with the UN and active participation in its processes, are of vital
importance to South Africa and the advancement of its foreign policy priorities.
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is informed by the realisation that the
organisation does not reflect current global political and economic realities. Hence, a
key priority in South Africa’s engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the
existing global governance architecture with a view to improving its responsiveness to
the needs of, and challenges faced by, developing states. The multilateral environment
remains under threat from unilateralist tendencies and geopolitical tensions, as well
as a gradual erosion and politicisation of multilateral programmes and agenda-setting
due to the chronic shortfalls in the UN’s regular budget and increased reliance on
extra budgetary/earmarked funding. Consequently, South Africa seeks to influence
this environment through active participation in the system of global governance, at
the same time also honouring all membership obligations.
Institutional reform
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is based on its commitment to promote an
equitable rules-based multilateral system and is informed by the recognition that the
UN does not reflect current global political and economic realities. A key priority in
South Africa’s engagement with the UN is to advance the reform of the existing global
governance architecture to improve the voice and representation of Africa and the
developing world, as well as the responsiveness of the UN system to the needs of
and challenges faced by Africa and developing states.
Promotion of cooperation between the United Nations and the
African Union
South Africa’s third two-year term on the UN Security Council (SC) ended in
December 2021. During its term, South Africa endeavoured to promote its views and
values regarding, among others, the importance of women in peace and security;
championing the cause of children in armed conflict situations; the rule of law at
national and international levels; post-conflict reconstruction and development; and
the peaceful resolution of conflict while fighting impunity.
South Africa’s Chairship of the AU Assembly of Heads of State and Government
ended in February 2021.
To promote peace, security and stability on the continent, South Africa used its
simultaneous presence in the UNSC and its position as Chair of the AU’s Assembly
of Heads of State and Government to strengthen cooperation between the UN
and the AU. Although South Africa has handed over the Chairship of the AU, it still
supports closer cooperation between the AU and UN. President Cyril Ramaphosa
was appointed as AU Champion for COVID-19.
Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control
The spectre of nuclear conflict is re-emerging, as a distinct possibility, following a
decades-long hiatus in terms of the threat of the use of nuclear weapons. Existing
tensions also raise concern about nuclear armed states, in particular India, Pakistan,
Israel and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), as these countries are
not bound by the relevant international treaties.
Global stocks of nuclear weapons are increasing and becoming more lethal as
nuclear-weapon states continue to modernise their nuclear arsenals, with some states
increasing the salience of nuclear weapons in their military and security strategies and
doctrines. The risk of a major conflict involving nuclear weapons and the catastrophic
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
23

consequences thereof cannot be discounted.
The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) is steadily strengthening
the norm against nuclear weapons, and given the catastrophic humanitarian impact
of any use of nuclear weapons, South Africa is working towards promoting the
universality of the treaty, which entered into force during January 2021. The Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) on the other hand, continues to come under strain.
Nuclear weapon states and states under extended nuclear security guarantees
(umbrella states) are reneging on nuclear disarmament commitments and are
primarily focussing on non-proliferation and peaceful uses in a manner that places
obligations on non-nuclear-weapon states, while attempting to restrict these states’
access to nuclear technologies for peaceful use.
The African Commission on Nuclear Energy (AFCONE), with its headquarters in
South Africa, is the Secretariat of the African Nuclear Weapon Free-Zone Treaty
(Pelindaba Treaty) and provides assistance to African states in terms of peaceful uses
of nuclear energy, as well as the verification thereof, in conjunction with the Internal
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The main nuclear security issues in Africa include
the handling of radioactive sources and the threat of illicit trafficking of radioactive
and nuclear materials. This is particularly important, given the persistent threat of
terrorism and violent extremism on the continent. AFCONE assures adherence to
nuclear security mainly through the verification of reports submitted by state parties
to the Pelindaba Treaty on their nuclear activities.
South Africa continues to contribute to capacity-building on the African continent,
especially in the field of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In so doing, the country
promotes the benefits that disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control hold
for international peace and security, particularly for countries in Africa and the Non-
Aligned Movement.
In terms of biological and chemical weapons, the potential threat of the use of these
weapons is being further exacerbated by an unstable international environment and
persistent conflicts such as the war in Ukraine and the civil war in the Syrian Arab
Republic, where the threat of use of such weapons remains a reality.
The COVID-19 pandemic has also demonstrated both the devastating human and
economic consequences of a global biological outbreak. The danger of the potential
use of biological weapons cannot be ignored, making it imperative for countries to be
better prepared to quickly react and respond to a biological incident, whether man-
made or of natural origin.
The 21st century has seen unprecedented advances in chemistry, biotechnology and
the life sciences, enhanced by the effects of globalisation, improved information and
communications technology (ICT) systems bringing benefits to humanity but also
the potential of being misused due to the inherent dual-use nature. UN Secretary-
General, António Guterres, noted in his Agenda for Disarmament, issued in 2018,
that “concerns regarding the increasing risks of biological and chemical weapons
have continued to grow as developments in science and technology lower barriers for
acquisition, access and use, including by non-state actors”.
South Africa continues to engage in relevant domestic and international control
regimes to counter such threats to peace and security and to ensure the country’s
reputation as a responsible possessor and trader of nuclear, biological and chemical
products and related advanced dual-use technologies. South Africa, as a state
party to the Convention for the Prohibition of use of Chemical Weapons (CWC), the
Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) and the NPT and as a member state of the
IAEA, remains committed to being a responsible international actor advocating for the
peaceful use and transfer of nuclear, chemical and biological products for peaceful
purposes and the controlled trade in dual-use items, which actively contribute billions
of rands to the South African economy.
In the areas of disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control, South Africa continues
to be guided by the 1994 Cabinet policy, which covers all weapons of mass destruction
and extends to concerns relating to the proliferation of conventional weapons. South
Africa continues to ensure that unwarranted restrictions are not imposed on the right
of developing countries to access material, equipment and technologies required for
their development.
Efforts are continuing to promote the Arms Trade Treaty, which has the objective of
setting the highest possible international standards for regulating the international
trade in conventional arms and seeks to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade and
diversion of conventional arms.
Issues related to conventional arms treaties with both disarmament and humanitarian
provisions remain pertinent, including the placing of prohibitions or restrictions on those
categories of weapons that are indiscriminate and inhumane, cause unnecessary
human suffering and lead to large numbers of civilian casualties.
In the area of conventional arms, it remains necessary to keep abreast of new
developments and emerging technologies in the design and manufacture of such
weapons, particularly in global trends in small arms and light weapons and lethal
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
24

autonomous weapons systems (LAWS). There is an urgent need to set international
standards on these weapons by prohibiting the production of those that are unreliable
and have indiscriminate effects, while ensuring human control during all key stages of
deployment, before a large-scale global roll-out of LAWS takes place.
The multilateral disarmament machinery has, for some time, been in a relative
stalemate and in most of the treaty bodies agreement on any substantive outcomes
has been an ongoing challenge. However, following the outbreak of the conflict in
Ukraine, European and aligned states have been using the Global Governance
System to draw attention to this situation, which has further negatively impacted the
work of the disarmament and non-proliferation machinery and resulted in negative
changes to previous principled positions of traditional partners. Examples include
the lack of progress in the Conference on Disarmament (CD), NPT, the Wassenaar
Arrangement (WA), CWC, IAEA and BWC. Other disarmament and non-proliferation
treaty bodies and processes, as well as control regimes have also been negatively
affected.
Important trends include:
• The conflict in Ukraine has the potential to escalate into a nuclear disaster that
will have catastrophic humanitarian consequences.
• A growing number of states are advocating the benefit of nuclear deterrence
and are increasing the salience of nuclear weapons in their military and security
doctrines.
• An agreement on the reinstatement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action
(JCPOA) in terms of Iran’s nuclear programme has stalled and is dependent
on the finalisation of negotiations between Iran and the US. Ultimately, the
US needs to return to the JCPOA, while Iran must once again comply with its
nuclear-related commitments under the Plan of Action.
• In the absence of political engagement to address the situation in the Korean
Peninsula, tension is increasing with multiple missiles (short-range, medium-
range and ballistic) being launched by the DPRK and accusations that the
latter is preparing to undertake another nuclear test.
• The Australia, United Kingdom and US’ trilateral security pact (AUKUS) is
an emerging non-proliferation challenge and could be a destabilising factor
obstructing nuclear disarmament and further prompting an arms race.
• The Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (New START) has been extended until
2026 but there is an urgent need for the parties to commence negotiations on
a successor agreement.
• The development of hypersonic weapons is being undertaken by several
countries such as Australia, China, Iran, India, Japan, Pakistan, the Russian
Federation, South Korea and the US, which further increases uncertainty and
the potential risk for inadvertent military actions and miscalculations.
• The role and use of emerging technologies such as AI, quantum computing,
synthetic biology and machine learning in the disarmament, non-proliferation
and arms control context remains a major concern due to their unchecked
development and possible use.
• Concerns about cyber security and the responsible use of ICTs are becoming
more pronounced and many states’ (especially developing states) ability to
counter cyber and ICT threats remain limited.
Terrorism
Terrorism continues to pose a threat to international peace and security. In the wake of
continued terror attacks in different parts of the world and the exploitation of instability
and conflict by terrorist groups in pursuit of their agendas, countering international
terrorism remains high on the agenda of the UN. South Africa’s commitment
to combatting international terrorism under the auspices of the UN and the AU is
reflected in its participation in the counter-terrorism structures of these organisations,
presenting it with an opportunity to promote national and continental positions on this
complex and growing agenda.
Climate change
According to the best available science, human-influenced climate change is
accelerating, increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, such
as cyclones and floods, as well as slow-onset weather events, including drought.
The international community is not on course to meet the Paris Agreement’s goal of
keeping the global aggregate temperature increase since the start of the industrial
revolution to under 2 degrees Centigrade, much less the aspirational goal of further
reducing the increase to 1,5 degrees. The window of opportunity to address the crisis
is fast closing and this needs to be the “Decade of Action”, as the UN proclaims.
Even at the current situation of just over a 1% global temperature rise, South Africa
and most other countries are experiencing catastrophic loss and damage caused by
climate change and are devoting ever greater resources to making their societies
more climate-resilient and adapting to climate change. States are seeking to transition
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
25

their economies to more sustainable modes of consumption and production, including
by phasing-down the use of fossil fuels in favour of renewable energy and adopting a
circular economy approach to reduce waste and enhance efficiency.
South Africa has developed a national framework strategy to achieve an economy and
society-wide just transition, which includes a highly ambitious Nationally Determined
Contribution (NDC) to the Paris Agreement. South Africa will only be able to achieve
the full vision of its just transition and the most ambitious end of the range of scenarios
outlined in its NDC with international support. Most other developing countries face
the same situation, which is why the priority in the multilateral negotiations located at
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is to secure access
to enabling means of implementation support. South Africa joins other developing
countries in advocating for a global response to climate change that is ambitious
and equitable and that provides development space for developing countries, in
the context of Sustainable Development and the Right to Development. Developed
countries must honour their commitments and take the lead in emission reductions
and climate action, with all parties contributing their best effort in accordance with the
UNFCCC’s guiding principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities
and respective capabilities, in light of national circumstances.
Gender
South Africa’s commitment to gender equality is firmly established in the Constitution
(1996). Chapter 2 of the Constitution, also known as the Bill of Rights, guarantees
full and equal enjoyment of all rights by all genders and the protection of people
against any form of discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of race, sex,
gender, religion, etc. The South African Parliament has also passed legislation that
furthers the goals of gender equality, including the Employment Equity Act, 1998, and
the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000. Several
gender-equality-relevant frameworks inform government policies and programmes.
These include the National Policy Framework for Women’s Empowerment and
Gender Equality of 2000, also known as the Gender Policy Framework, which reflects
South Africa’s vision for gender equality and how it intends to realise this ideal.
In addition, South Africa is a signatory to several international and regional instruments
relating to gender equality and women empowerment. These include the Convention
on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) of 1995,
the AU Protocol to the African Charter on Human People’s Rights on the Rights of
Women, better known as the Maputo Protocol (2005), and the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) Protocol on Gender and Development (2012).
Gender mainstreaming continues to be a key process for instituting change and
building an equal society based on respect for human rights. South Africa ratified
the Beijing Platform for Action, an agenda towards the empowerment of women and
girls, and made a firm commitment to mainstream gender within the Government by
creating the National Gender Machinery, led by the Department of Women, Youth
and Persons with Disabilities. In 2021, South Africa ratified the International Labour
Organisation (ILO) Convention 190 aimed at ending violence and harassment in the
world of work.
South-South and North-South cooperation
DIRCO will continue to contribute to the facilitation of economic growth and
development through regional and continental integration and will, therefore, continue
to build relationships with partners in the North and South, despite the huge gap
between major and middle powers on the one hand, and developing countries on the
other hand.
South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among countries and groupings
of the South to develop common positions on political, economic, social and human
rights issues as an effective response in addressing the historic marginalisation of
these countries. Groupings of the South share the need to restructure the global
political, economic and financial architecture to be more balanced, representative,
inclusive and equitable, as well as to ensure that the international system rests on the
important pillars of multilateralism and international law. South Africa will also continue
to use its membership and bilateral and multilateral engagements with groupings of
the South to support foreign policy objectives; advocate for strong, mutually beneficial
South-South cooperation; advocate for focussed regional integration in fast-growing
markets; and strengthen regional cooperation in areas of interest with countries of the
South. Groupings of the South include BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa), which South Africa will Chair in 2023; IBSA (India, Brazil and South Africa);
lORA (Indian Ocean Rim Association); the Group of 77 (G77) and China; and the
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
South Africa participates in all high-level meetings of the NAM and the G77, which it
views as a key international obligation. South Africa remains committed to the guiding
principles of the NAM and the G77, supports consensus-building in developing the
positions of these groups and prioritises close South-South cooperation as a crucial
element to countering the international marginalisation of the developing world.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
26

South Africa will continue to utilise its membership of the NAM and G77 to further the
African Agenda; strengthen South-South cooperation; promote dialogue to achieve
sustainable development, international peace and security; promote multilateralism
and the Bandung principles; and encourage the strengthening of rules-based global
governance systems and the reform of the UN and its organs.
South Africa should continue to leverage strategic regional groupings such as BRICS,
IBSA and IORA to improve trade flows and build consensus in multilateral groupings.
South Africa engages with key global economic processes of the North, such as
the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the World Bank (WB), International Monetary
Fund (IMF), Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD),
World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), the Group of Seven (G7) and the
World Economic Forum (WEF) to promote African Agenda 2063 in particular and the
broader development interests of developing countries in general. South Africa will
also continue to facilitate and monitor the implementation of existing mechanisms,
such as the Joint Africa-European Union (EU) Strategy, which provides a framework
for relations between Africa and the EU and the Tokyo International Conference on
African Development (TICAD), an international conference led by the Japanese
Government and co-sponsored by the UN, the UN Development Programme (UNDP),
the AU Commission (AUC) and the WB.
Commonwealth
South Africa will also actively participate in the work of the Commonwealth and attend
all high-level meetings, including the Commonwealth Foreign Affairs Ministers Meeting
and the biannual Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. South Africa supports
the reform of the Commonwealth to focus on priority areas, which will add value
as well as strengthen the organisation and raise the profile of the Commonwealth.
In view of the current financial environment, South Africa supports the cost-cutting
measures implemented at the Commonwealth Secretariat and will work towards more
effective and efficient delivery of the objectives of the Commonwealth as set out in
the new Strategic Plan; in line with the Commonwealth Charter; the mandates of the
Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM); and the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). South Africa will utilise its position as a leading advocate
within the Commonwealth to continue to promote the African Agenda; the interests of
developing member states; and to monitor the implementation of the mandates given
to the Commonwealth Secretariat at CHOGMs.
Relations with regions of the world
In line with the focus on economic growth and sustainable socio-economic
development, DIRCO negotiates and navigates international trends beyond its
immediate region and the continent. Over the last decade, the importance of building
trade and investment relations with new poles of economic growth in the world has
become ever more compelling. This inexorable change in the economic geography of
the world economy requires a more purposeful effort to diversify South Africa’s trade
and investment relations to benefit from the rapid and dynamic economic growth in
the global South. DIRCO’s international network of missions is a strategic asset that
is being leveraged to realise maximum return on the investment it represents for the
people of South Africa.
Constrained foreign direct investment (FDI) and investment flows, protectionism and
the impact of US sanctions on (secondary) Iran and Huawei, have impacted the South
African domestic economy, for example the telecommunications sector. South Africa
should avoid taking sides on the growing tensions between China and the US to avoid
compromising trade and investment with either country.
The African continent
The 2022 African Economic Outlook was released by the African Development Bank
(AfDB) on 25 May 2022. The release came against a backdrop of two major global
crises: the lingering COVID-19   pandemic   and   the   Russia-Ukraine conflict. The
latter erupted as Africa’s economy was on a path of recovery from the ravaging impact
of the pandemic and it threatens to set back the continent’s promising economic
prospects.
According to the President of the AfDB, the continent risks sliding into stagflation – a
combination of slow growth and high inflation. Real gross domestic product (GDP) is
projected to grow by 4.1% in 2022, markedly lower than the near 7% in 2021. The
deceleration in growth highlights the severity of the impact of the Russia-Ukraine
conflict on Africa’s economy. The services sector, especially tourism, has shown
strong post-pandemic recovery and is likely to remain buoyant in the medium term,
supported by industry, especially in mining, underpinned by soaring metal prices.
Africa’s low COVID-19 vaccination roll-out, persistent sovereign debt vulnerabilities,
high debt levels and climate and environmental concerns remain the main threats to
medium- and long-term growth trajectories. Disruptions to global trade and supply
chains ‒ primarily in the agricultural, fertiliser and energy sectors ‒ following the
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
27

Russia-Ukraine conflict and the corresponding sanctions on trade with Russia have
tilted the balance of risks to Africa’s economic outlook to the downside. Should the
Russia-Ukraine conflict persist, Africa’s growth is likely to stagnate at around 4% in
2023.
Global context: South Africa’s foreign policy is implemented within a highly dynamic
and challenging global environment, which at times is unpredictable. This includes
a shift in the Global “Balance of Forces”, characterised by the global power struggle
between forces of multipolarity (BRICS) and unipolarity (US). China has emerged
as a major global political and economic power, with its dominance on the African
continent in particular. Another major development is the eruption of war between
Russia and Ukraine in February 2022, which has caused disruptions to the global
food and energy value chain of untold proportions.
Political: The regional economic communities have in recent years been challenged
in the management of political crises in the countries of the continent. The way in which
these crises are managed undoubtedly set the precedent for future manifestations of
anti-government sentiments. The lack of progress in the resolution of the Western
Sahara independence agenda and the Israeli-Palestine conflict, remains a worrying
trend. This is coupled by the influence of internal and external actors on these issues
at the expense of African solidarity and Pan Africanism.
Peace, security and stability: The stability of the continent has been extensively
challenged over recent years. Despite the holding of regular elections and the peaceful
transfer of political power, anti-government protests and coups d’état have increased.
The presence of extremists, insurgents and armed groups in various parts of the
continent, reversed the developmental progress achieved over the last decade. The
politico-security situation in the region, particularly in Northern Mozambique, Cabo
Delgado and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) remains a priority. Despite
the relatively calmness, the isolated security threats in some member states, as
mentioned above, are a major concern.
Economic: According to the April 2022 IMF’s Economic Outlook Report, the
economic recovery in sub-Saharan Africa after the COVID-19 pandemic disruption
was promising with economic growth estimated to reach 4.5% in this year up from
3.7% in 2021. However, the Russia-Ukraine conflict has triggered a global economic
shock that is hitting the region at a time when countries’ policy space to respond is
minimal to non-existent. Food and nutrition insecurity in the SADC region was also
underscored by the 2022 SADC Synthesis Report on the state of food and nutrition
security and vulnerability in southern Africa, which also calls on the region to build
resilience to address the multiple and increasing shocks it faces.
Of the 55 African countries, 38 have direct access to sea routes. This geographic
advantage has placed these countries at a strategic position with regard to sea trade
and the ocean economy. Unfortunately, the same strategic geographic position has
also attracted access contestations by global powers, transnational crime syndicates
and piracy on both the east and west side of the continent.
Trade: The African continent accounts for 26.67% of South Africa’s total global
exports; 12.63% of our total global imports; and 19.68% of South Africa’s total global
trade portfolio. The majority of South Africa’s trade with the African continent, around
80%, is within the SADC region. Africa also has the advantage of a young and
growing population and will soon have the fastest urbanisation rate in the world. By
2034, the region is expected to have a larger workforce than either China or India.
Manufacturing, infrastructure development, telecommunications, energy, transport,
logistics and technology are sectors that developed economies perceive as having
huge investment potential for the continent. There is a growing potential for the
agricultural sector to become a driver of economic growth on the continent. However,
increasing levels of government debt – the creation of a fiscal bubble, along with
rising youth unemployment poses significant challenges to the continent.
South Africa’s major exports to the continent, in order of value, include: mineral
products; heavy and light machinery; chemicals; iron and steel products; prepared
foodstuffs; vehicles, aircrafts and vessels; plastics and rubber; vegetables; textiles;
wood pulp; live animals; precious metals; toys, sports and apparel; medical and
photographic equipment; stone and glass; wood products; animal or vegetable vats;
footwear; raw hides and leather; works of art; and equipment components.
The number of South African companies doing business on the continent has also
increased exponentially since 1994, thus also contributing to the favourable trade
balance South Africa enjoys in its trade within Africa. It is worth mentioning that South
Africa exports value-added goods to the continent, which therefore contributes directly
to South Africa’s manufacturing sector and job creation.
From a social perspective, according to the World Bank, the African continent is the
second most populous continent after Asia with 1.3 billion people accounting for
16% of the world’s human population - (Demographic Dividend). In 2017, 383.55
million youth aged 10 to 24 years lived in Africa, accounting for just under 31% of the
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
28

continent’s population. The youthful age, growing population, increasing middle class
and consumers, are major resources for the continent.
Social: The continent has a favourable youth demographics (young population),
thus touted as a major advantage for economic growth prospects, albeit with a high
unemployment rate, especially among youth and women. According to Cities Alliance,
almost 60% of Africa’s population is under the age of 25, making Africa the world’s
youngest continent. An increasing working-age population is a major opportunity
for economic growth. While the youth continue to present favourable advantages, it
continues to battle with under-development, lack of jobs and poverty. These include
civil unrest, unemployment, natural disasters as well as floods and food insecurity.
Regional economic integration:  The Regional Indicative Strategic Development
Plan (RISDP) 2020-2030 is based on a firm foundation of peace, security and good
governance, and is premised on the following three pillars of industrial development
and market integration; infrastructure development in support of regional integration;
and social and human capital development, including cross-cutting issues such as
gender, youth, climate change and disaster risk management.  All these issues form a
triangle that guides our work, known as the security-development-governance nexus.
The SADC integration objectives and strategies are articulated in the RISDP 2020-
2030 and SADC Vision 2050, approved by the SADC Summit of Heads of State and
Government in August 2020.
The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 2000 (Act 51
of 2000): The Act establishes an African Renaissance and International Fund (ARF) to
enhance cooperation between the Republic and other countries, in particular African
countries, through the promotion of democracy, good governance, the prevention
and resolution of conflict, socio-economic development and integration, humanitarian
assistance and human resource development.
The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Act, 2000 should be amended
to provide for the name change of the ARF to the South African Development
Partnership Fund and for the designation of a Head, as an Accounting Authority, who
will be responsible, together with the Secretariat, for the administration of the fund.
The fund will remain an entity listed in terms of the Public Finance Management Act,
1999 (Act 1 of 1999).
Funding of projects will be done on the basis of concurrence between the Minister of
International Relations and Cooperation and the Minister of Finance.
Europe and the European Union
The EU, including the Eurozone countries, is the single largest global trading bloc and
remains a key and essential international role-player.
The Euro area economy was recovering swiftly from the after-effects of the COVID-19
pandemic and supply bottlenecks when the Russia-Ukraine conflict started in
February 2022.
Contrary to initial expectations, the Russia-Ukraine conflict is continuing, causing
increasing supply chain disruption and global shortages of critical goods and a drop
in manufacturing, agricultural, trade and construction sectors, which will continue
to worsen in this financial year. The reliance, for example, of German exporters on
international suppliers of mechanical parts, will mean that as long as the conflict in
Ukraine continues, disruptions, particularly in the automotive sector, will continue to
worsen, having a direct impact on trade relations between South Africa and Germany
but also with the other Western European countries.
The sanctions imposed on Russia have blocked the traditional routes for the
transport of goods and services in Europe and have exacerbated global supply chain
challenges. The traditional supply of grains by Russia and Ukraine have, for example,
been disrupted not only by the sanctions on Russia, but also by the destruction of
infrastructure in Ukraine. This has and will continue to have a direct impact on Africa
and South Africa in the foreseeable future.
The following trends are highlighted:
• an increase in conservative government coalitions in larger countries and in
European as voters appear to be dissatisfied with traditional political parties
• leaders on the continent are more pro-business and pro-Europe
• divisions in Europe are emerging as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict,
highlighting the EU as a union of many
• reforms of the EU are possible in future
• potential terror attacks in Europe
• illegal migration is continuing
• the EU is under pressure from Eastern and Southern Europe
• EU and US bilateral relations with Russia are expected to remain tense
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
29

• the EU has competitive advantages in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR).
Despite some uncertainty within the United Kingdom (UK) about its global role
and standing post-Brexit, the UK remains a major power that exerts international,
economic, political, military, scientific and cultural influence globally. Since Brexit, the
UK has especially focussed on seeking alternate trade partners and strengthening its
relations with African and Commonwealth countries.
For South Africa, it is expected that trade with and investment and tourism from
Europe will stabilise and increase. For Europe, there is an expectation for South
Africa to take a greater role in peace and security and combatting corruption in Africa.
Trade and investment, including support for the President’s investment initiative, is
the primary focus of diplomatic efforts in this region, with a particular focus on the
sectors that can promote industrialisation and increased beneficiation, and those that
can transform South Africa’s economy.
FDI from Europe is estimated at over R1 trillion with more than 2 000 companies
operating in South Africa, employing South Africans, enhancing their skills and
investing in the economy.
Europe has traditionally been the largest source of development cooperation with
South Africa. These are focussed on addressing poverty, job creation and inequality
and include programmes in addressing energy challenges (particularly green and
renewable energy); water resources; the ocean’s economy; small, medium and
micro enterprise development; agriculture; education; science and technology; and
mineral beneficiation. The focus of DIRCO will be to continue with the consolidation of
relations with these regional partners and to promote partnerships in support of South
Africa’s domestic priorities.
The introduction of the EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) in the
near future may negatively impact on South Africa’s and other developing countries
by transferring the climate burden to the developing world. This may further lead to
trade distortions and impact on South Africa’s trade with the EU. The shift in the global
balance of forces as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict will need to be monitored,
as well as any change in reaction of EU-partners and NATO members towards South
Africa as a result of its neutral position vis-à-vis the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
The EU is the SADC Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) group’s largest trading
partner, with South Africa accounting for the largest part of EU imports to and EU
exports from the region.
The SADC-EU EPA covers trade and investment issues and regional integration
efforts. The EU had previously indicated that the EPAs would also form the legal
framework under which it would incorporate support for the achievement of the SDGs
and support for climate change projects. This undertaking represents a move beyond
the donor/recipient relationship towards long-term cooperation on jointly identified,
mutual and complementary interests, based on the principles of equality, ownership,
partnership, solidarity, complementarity, subsidiarity and proportionality. The SADC
EPA countries’ main export product to the EU is diamonds. Other products from the
region include agricultural products, oil and aluminum. South Africa’s exports to the
EU are more diversified and range from fruit to platinum and from manufactured goods
to wine. The EU exports a wide range of goods to SADC EPA countries, including
vehicles, machinery, electrical equipment, pharmaceuticals and processed food.
On continental level, the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership provides an overarching
long-term framework for intercontinental relations aimed at promoting economic
cooperation, sustainable development, peace, security, democracy, prosperity,
solidarity and human dignity for the benefit of its members.
South Africa and the Americas
According to the Economist Group, a combination of high inflation, a steep rise in
interest rates and slowdowns in Europe and China will curb growth prospects across
North America in 2023. The US economy is expected to experience a mild technical
recession in early 2023, with GDP flattening year-on-year, rising by just 0.1%.  In
contrast, the Canadian economy will continue to benefit from high commodity prices,
although aggressive monetary tightening will also impact growth. Both US and
Canadian foreign policy will re-focus on China in 2023, while an easing of North
America-China tensions is not expected any time soon.
Following the midterm elections of November 2022, the Democrats held onto the
Senate with at most 51 seats, while the Republicans hold a narrow majority in the
House of Representatives. The so-called Red Wave failed to materialise as most
Trump-endorsed candidates were not elected. There is a realisation that Trumpism
has cost the Republicans and the narrow Republican win in the House was clouded by
growing rivalry between former President Donald Trump and Governor Ron DeSantis
of Florida, as both are expected to enter the presidential race in 2024.
The convening of the Bilateral Strategic Dialogue in August 2022, at Ministerial level,
and the Working Visit to Washington DC by President Ramaphosa in September
2022, allowed for an opportunity to strategically review the bilateral relationship and
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
30

identify new priorities, and reinforced the recognition by the US of South Africa’s
leadership role in the region and globally.
The hosting of the US-Africa Leaders’ Summit by President Biden in December 2022
was rooted in the recognition that Africa is a key geopolitical player. The summit
delivered key outcomes relating to health, climate change, conflicts, food security and
food system resilience. The US Government announced several new initiatives to
grow two-way trade and investment and signed a Memorandum of Understanding to
with the AfCFTA Secretariat to expand engagement to promote equitable, sustainable,
and inclusive trade; boost competitiveness; and attract investment to the continent.
The following trends are highlighted:
• The Biden Administration has made steady progress in re-engaging
multilaterally, restoring and re-energising its alliances with key partners and
rejuvenating partnerships in international organisations, including in the
context of the COVID-19 pandemic and climate action.
• There will be a continuation of geopolitical disruptors in the form of great power
competition, particularly with Russia and with China in different ways, including
competition for influence in the Asia-Pacific region, Africa and Latin America.
• A greater focus on the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors
and Science Act of 2022 (CHIPS Act) to make sure that the US remains the
leader in making semiconductors and on the Inflation Reduction Act to aid
economic recovery, tackle the climate crisis and drive a green energy revolution.
At the same time, the US will invest a lot of effort to avoid competition with
China veering into conflict.
• Following the outcomes of the mid-term elections, prospects for a divided
government and political posturing are high, particularly on dominant issues
such as inflation, democracy, abortion, crime, border security and immigration,
gun control, LGBTIQ+ issues, education, parental rights and especially, as
attention shifts to the 2024 presidential election.
• Former President Trump’s announcement that he will run for president again is
likely to unsettle the revived alliance with NATO, given his world views.
• US foreign policy, particularly towards Ukraine and the Middle East, is unlikely
to change, although House Republicans are expected to magnify the hawkish
views of Benjamin Netanyahu who has returned as Israeli Prime Minister and
who will likely continue his past strategy of using Iran as a foil to deflect attention
from Israeli-Palestinian tensions and US criticism over Israeli treatment of the
Palestinians and Israeli Arabs.
• The change in leadership in the House of Representatives will result in pressure
to change past policy towards developing countries based on financial aid and
trade preferences such as AGOA, in favour of a policy promoting economic
partnerships and an insistence that US policies abroad must result in clear
benefits for Americans.
• Overall, the mid-term elections will not change much regarding US engagement
with South Africa/Africa. Africa will continue to command bipartisan support in
the foreseeable future, although Republicans and Democrats are likely to find
common ground around trade as neither the Trump nor the Biden Administration
is keen on new preferential trade deals. This has implications for the renewal
of AGOA, which expires in 2025, and the modalities of any new framework for
trade and investment with Africa.
• In Canada, the Trudeau Administration, in response to the emergence of a
multipolar world, the resultant geopolitical fragmentation and the search for
areas of influence, has led to the decision for Canada to develop its own Africa
Engagement Strategy, which is still under consideration. The new strategy will
inform Canada’s future economic engagement with Africa.
Latin America and the Caribbean
According to the IMF, the Latin America and Caribbean region is set to realise 3.5%
GDP growth in 2022, as the region capitalised on interruptions and shocks to the
global economy, such as high oil prices that boosted economies of countries like
Guyana, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela. Despite the economic resilience shown
in 2022, economic growth is projected at 1.7% in 2023. This deceleration will be
driven by adverse external conditions and monetary tightening aimed at fighting high
inflation. Low growth will impact negatively on unemployment, inequality, informality
and poverty, which remains at above 30%. The persistence of these structural
challenges risks the continuation of political instability in 2023.
Politically, Latin America enters 2023 with a reconfigured political landscape, as most
new governments in the region are constituted by left or centre left political parties/
candidates, as well as candidates from outside the political establishments. The key
challenge facing some of these new governments is continued political instability
resulting from lack of absolute majority to govern; sluggish economic performance;
the tendency to impeach presidents by opposition-dominated parliaments; and
involvement in the political fray by other state institutions, such as national prosecutors
and the military.
At multilateral level, the region is shedding the clutch of the North and moving towards
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
31

independence as regional bodies, which exclude the US and Canada, and are being
revived.
Bilateral relations between South Africa and the countries of the region are
maintained through structured bilateral mechanisms, high-level engagements and
government-to-government agreements, with the objective of expanding economic
ties to the mutual benefit of both parties. In this respect, key areas of engagement
include agriculture; Antarctica; aquaculture and fisheries; arts and culture; energy and
mining; health; science and innovation; skills development and training; trade and
economic cooperation; and cooperation on multilateral issues. The Southern Africa
Customs Union (SACU)-Southern Common Market (Mercosur) Preferential Trade
Agreement (PTA) has created opportunities for improved trade relations with some of
the countries of the region. Furthermore, South African mining companies have large
investments in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru.
Strategic competition between the US and China and a renewed global push for
energy transition are key potential drivers of new business opportunities in Latin
America. Firms from China, South Korea, Japan and Australia are increasingly
positioning themselves in the region, investing in mining, hydrocarbons, automotive
and telecommunications. Over the five-year outlook, renewable energies and
advanced manufacturing should gain prominence.
Trends in the region include:
• Socio-economic challenges, especially poverty, inequality and unemployment,
that were exacerbated by COVID-19 and the war in Ukraine.
• Stabilisation of the situation in Venezuela due to improved political dialogue
between the Government and the opposition.
• Brazilian politics remain divided. However, the election of President Lula da
Silva promises to see greater participation on regional and multilateral issues.
• The June 2022 elections in Colombia have brought some stability in the country
and in its relations with neighbouring Venezuela.
• Governance challenges and political instability in Peru.
• An increase in Chinese investment in manufacturing facilities in the region, as
Beijing deals with its trade challenges with the US.
 Asia and the Middle East
South Africa maintains strong political relations with the countries of Asia and the
Middle East, and these partnerships contribute tangibly towards progress on the
priorities identified in the National Development Plan (NDP). It is against these targets
and those identified in the Post-COVID Economic Reconstruction and Recovery
Plan (ERRP) that DIRCO aims to execute a more assertive economic strategy
towards the region based on South Africa’s National Interest, within the parameters
of South-South solidarity and development cooperation. South African diplomatic
engagements in the region focus on gaining access to new markets for manufactured
products and market access negotiations for South African agricultural products are
being pursued with a number of countries. South African economic diplomacy efforts
focus on market entry and positioning South African companies to benefit from the
favourable growth and future economic growth projections of the region. The region
also provides opportunities for skills development and training collaboration in line
with the priorities identified in the National Skills Development Strategy. South Africa’s
strategy of engagement with Asia and the Middle East is pursued with the following
subregional focus:
• Southeast Asia is a dynamic and vibrant region characterised by high rates
of economic growth and development. The region thus represents a major
growing market for value-added South African exports, especially within the
manufacturing and consumer goods sectors. Further areas of expansion are
envisaged within the financial services, mining equipment and technology,
agro-processing and defence procurement sectors. Many countries have
invested in the South African economy and further FDI sources will be identified,
as well as exploring training opportunities in those areas where South Africa
experiences skills shortages.
• South Africa is pursuing Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP) status with the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and has lodged a letter of
intention, dated 8 December 2022, for consideration by the Jakarta-based
Secretariat. ASEAN will, post-COVID-19, continue to be a high economic
growth region. The US, India, Japan and Australia are expanding their regional
roles through economic and maritime security cooperation with ASEAN. China
is increasing its outreach by expanding its global supply chains and networks
into ASEAN.
• South Africa enjoys strong political, economic and technical relations with the
countries in the East Asia and Oceania region. Bilateral relations with countries
in the region are pursued in line with priorities highlighted in the NDP and
ERRP. South Africa’s trade and investment relations with the region are strong
and growing, but there is substantial room for expansion. Tourism from the
region, in particular, has huge potential to contribute to South Africa’s GDP.
The region is home to some of South Africa’s biggest investment partners
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
32

and cooperation contributes to industrialisation, job creation, science and
technology, infrastructure development and skills development.
• China is the second-largest economy in the world and South Africa’s largest
trade partner. However, there is a large trade deficit of US$50 billion, which
remains a concern. South Africa is also China’s biggest trade partner on the
continent, while Chinese companies are viewed as economic competitors for
South African companies, especially in Eastern Africa.
• South Africa and China are celebrating 25 years of diplomatic relations in 2023
which also coincides with South Africa’s chairing of BRICS.
• There is a positive trade balance in South Africa’s favour for both Japan
and the Republic of Korea (ROK). Japan and the ROK are major investors
into the South African economy, with Japanese investments, in particular,
characterised by bricks and mortar, heavy plant and machinery and quality
job creation. Strong focus on trade, investment and inward-tourism promotion
continues, including technology transfer.
• South Africa and India will be celebrating 30 years of formal diplomatic relations
this year, and it is envisaged that the celebration should be used to refocus
the relationship to the benefit of both countries. It is expected that India will
sustain high economic growth over the long term. While the country offers a
large market for South African exports and services, its “Make in India” focus
means that South African companies will have to target specific sectors in that
economy. During the India @ 75 celebrations in August 2022, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi pledged to move India from Developing to Developed country
status within the next 25 years.
• South Africa remains committed to a stable and peaceful Middle East and
supports sustainable and just solutions to the various conflicts in the region.
The region is an important component of South Africa’s global trade and is
a critical energy partner to South Africa. The strong focus on investment will
continue in the objectives pursued in 2023 to 2025 through South Africa’s
diplomatic engagement with the region.
• The 37th Israeli government elections were held on 1 November 2022, and
the appointment of Mr Benjamin Netanyahu as Prime Minister will have further
adverse impacts on the prospects of resuscitating the Middle East Peace
Process (MEPP) as he  abandoned the last round of negotiations in 2014,
which were brokered by Mr John Kerry under the Obama Administration,
during which President Biden was the Vice President. Mr Netanyahu remains
committed to strengthening the Abraham Accords with Arab states in order to
further strengthen security ties. To achieve this goal, Mr Netanyahu wishes to
forge stronger ties with Saudi Arabia and the US.
• The high-level visits to Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon and Syria, undertaken at
Deputy Minister level in 2022, have further strengthened South Africa’s bilateral
political and economic relations with the Levant countries.
• South Africa remains committed to supporting the two-State solution and the
people of Palestine.
• Economies across the Middle East face varying growth prospects in 2023,
which will drive comparatively strong growth in the energy-rich Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC) states.
• The countries of the Gulf Region are important global role players in the political
and economic context. Some countries are actively engaged in mediation
initiatives to promote regional peace and development initiatives, while some
venture even further, including some African conflicts.
• The countries in the Gulf Region also host major international events and
conferences. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) will host COP28 in November
2023.
Trends in the Middle East region include:
• Renewed efforts to establish a permanent ceasefire in Yemen and efforts to
address regional conflicts in Yemen and Syria will assist in creating a conducive
environment for regional growth and development.
• Israeli initiatives to establish stronger bilateral partnerships with countries in
the region following the conclusion of the Abraham Accords and initiatives
such as the I2U2, which may also impact on regional dynamics and postures
in regional organisations.
• Iran’s nuclear development programme is expanding and becoming more
technologically advanced. Domestic developments in Iran impact on its
international engagements and notably negotiations to resume the JCPOA.
US and EU tensions with Iran are set to escalate with relations between Iran
and the West expected to deteriorate further, which may scupper plans to
revive the Iran nuclear deal. Saudi Arabia, Israel and Iran dynamics continue
to impact on broader regional relations.
• The Middle East is increasingly subject to the impact of climate change and
is an important new source for the development of appropriate strategies and
technologies in this regard.
• Relations between major role players in the region and the US appear to be
entering a new phase in the context of the US pivot towards Asia. Saudi-
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
33

US bilateral relations will remain an important dynamic especially within the
Persian Gulf Region.
• South African exports to the Gulf region are an important stimulus in furthering
sectoral cooperation as the region serves as an economic and oil import hub
and centre of connectivity to major sea routes for both South Africa and the
Gulf Region.
• Various sectors for enhanced economic cooperation that can be further
developed include agro-processing, manufacturing, defence industries,
mining, services and tourism, etc.
• High-level visits to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UAE in 2022 have laid
the foundation for strengthening economic engagement that is commensurate
with the cordial bilateral political relations.
• Social tensions in some countries (i.e. youth unemployment) remain pertinent
and could spill over into social challenges in parts of the Middle East.
4.2 Internal environment analysis
The department is committed to sound corporate governance and has developed
various internal control mechanisms to strengthen corporate governance. Internally,
there are various management structures and committees in place with terms of
reference that meet on a regular basis. These management structures serve as
mechanisms to improve corporate governance and decision-making and enhance
communication.
The department has fully functioning assurance units such as Risk Management
and Internal Audit. These units are supported by the Risk Management Committee
and Audit Committee, both chaired by independent (external) chairpersons. The
department can report that both committees are contributing positively to the risk and
audit management processes in the department.
The department continues to deliver a professional Protocol Service to the President,
Deputy President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International Relations and
Cooperation, as well as other Cabinet ministers and departments. It also provides an
advisory service to all spheres of government on all matters related to Protocol. The
work of the branch is regulated, among others, in terms of the Diplomatic Immunities
and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2001), which incorporates the Vienna Convention
on Diplomatic Relations, 1961, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, 1963,
the Foreign States Immunities Act, 1981 (Act 87 of 1981) and various international
conventions and treaties. In addition, the department legalises public documents
effectively and assists enterprises, South African citizens and foreign nationals in
the presentation of appropriate, validated South African public documents across the
globe.
Despite the above, it should be noted that the Annual Performance Plan is to be
delivered in an environment that is still characterised by fiscal constraints. In response
to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department
engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on a
non-residential basis, in a bid to contain costs. This process resulted in the closure
of several missions. Furthermore, the department is in the process of developing
identified systems to improve operations’ efficiencies and effectiveness in automating
business processes. There have been marginal improvements in the implementation
of the Digital Strategy 2020 – 2025, where several ICT infra structure projects have
been implemented. The remainder of these projects will be finalised in the next
financial year.
The department showed an improvement with regard to the audit opinion, moving
from a qualified opinion to an unqualified opinion with matters of emphasis. The
department will continue efforts to improve internal controls to work towards achieving
a clean audit.
Due to the nature of departmental operations, it has to contend with foreign currency
fluctuations, resulting in foreign exchange losses, due to the depreciation of the Rand
against other major foreign currencies, which negatively impacts on the department.
The Foreign Service Act, 2019 (Act 26 of 2019) (the “Act”) and its Regulations
came into force on 25 August 2022. The purpose of the Act is to professionalise the
Foreign Service and provide a legislative mandate to the department by providing
for the management, administration, accountability and functioning of a professional
Foreign Service and the operational requirements that are suitable and supportive of
the operations of the Foreign Service in a global environment. This is the first time
that South Africa has legislation that governs its foreign service and that mandated
the department to lead and coordinate the international relations of the Republic
on all spheres of government and on bilateral, regional and multilateral levels. This
will ensure coherent foreign policy implementation. The department is developing
coordination guidelines and measures to enable it to fulfil its mandate.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
34

The department has been engaging in a process of organisational renewal as a
tool to assist the organisation to achieve its identified strategic objectives. This has
required of the department to review and finalise its organisational structure to align
it with its strategic plan and the priorities of the MTSF 2019 – 2024. It will require the
department to implement effective financial management through the application of
good financial management systems, including management accounting, financial
accounting, supply chain management and risk and internal controls, in line with the
requirements of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act 1 of 1999). Strategic
focus is also being given to ensure digital transformation of business capabilities to
enable efficient delivery of the department’s mandate in a smart and secure manner.
Due to the shortfall on the Compensation of Employees (CoE) budget, only critical
vacancies can be filled, which has impacted negatively on service delivery and the
achievement of the department’s mandate. To mitigate the associated risks on the
shortfall of the CoE, the department will focus on upskilling and reskilling its human
resources. In addition, responding to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal
environment, the department is engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint
and seeking accreditation on a non-residential basis, in a bid to contain costs.
Gender and youth development mainstreaming is a critical part of pursuing a vision
for an egalitarian world. It helps embed young people and women’s aspirations into
development planning and ensure equality between youth and adults and men and
women. In its best form, it connects democracy initiatives to equitable development
outcomes for youth, women and communities.
Youth and gender mainstreaming in South Africa’s foreign policy is a priority and
envisages strengthening the wider influence of the sector in establishing holistic
development planning across all sectors. This will contribute to young people and
women’s social, political and economic empowerment and open doors for their
inclusion in and contribution to broader development strategies.
The mainstreaming of youth development into the department policy priorities is
mainly informed by the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996; National
Youth Policy 2020 ‒ 2030 (NYP 2030); Integrated Youth Development Strategy
(IYDS); NDP 2030; National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) Act, 2008 (Act 54 of
2008); the NYS Development Policy Framework (2002); South Africa’s New Growth
Path;  African Youth Charter (2006); World Programme of Action on Youth (2000);
UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD); the World
Programme of Action for Youth; and the SDGs.
The department, guided by South Africa’s foreign policy objectives, interest and the
above domestic and international frameworks, intends to continue taking a leading
role in entrenching women and youth’s rights as fundamental human rights critical for
the full realisation of inclusive and sustainable development.
The department has institutionalised the 8-Principle Action Plan for Heads of
Department aimed at promoting women’s empowerment and gender equality
(8-principle action plan). This entails reinforcing gender mainstreaming mechanisms
within the department through the establishment of a framework for gender
mainstreaming across policies, procedures and practices aimed at:
• creating an enabling policy environment within the department that translates
government commitment to women’s empowerment and gender equality into
concrete actions
• facilitating processes, programmes and mechanisms to empower women
and to transform gender relations in all aspects of work, at all levels of the
department
• ensuring that gender considerations are effectively integrated into all aspects
of departmental policies, activities and programmes
• facilitating the establishment of appropriate institutional frameworks and
mechanisms for the advancement of the status of women as well as the
achievement of gender equality
• coordinating a set of specific interventions and advocate for a culture of respect
for human rights and human dignity as a cornerstone for the advancement of
women’s empowerment and gender equality
• promoting new attitudes, values and behaviour, thereby contributing towards
changing the gender stereotypes and mind-set.
The department continues to strengthen existing budgeting and reporting tools and
instruments to leverage for an effective roll-out of Gender-Responsive Planning,
Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation and Auditing (GRPBMEA), which was adopted
by Cabinet on 27 March 2019 for implementation by the sixth Government
Administration. Limited adjustments are still required to fully integrate the outcomes
of the gender impact assessments in the budget process, making room for gender-
related information in the budget documentation or introducing standards for using a
gender lens in the budget processes. This will imply continuous capacity-building for
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
35

all the stakeholders in the budget process. An approach combining the preparation of
a GRPBMEA and a gender expenditure tagging mechanism is envisaged.
The department supports South Africa’s commitment to build a culture of peace
through the full implementation of South Africa’s National Action Plan on Women,
Peace and Security and the Youth, Peace and Security Agenda. These are reflected
in various internal programmes within the department. To augment these priorities,
the department will continue to enhance gender mainstreaming through training
programmes such as the Conflict Resolution, Mediation and Negotiation Capacity-
building training programme, which is targeted at the grassroots level for women
and youth, persons with disabilities and the LGBTQI+ community, both domestically
and on the continent. Our in-house leadership programmes also enhance gender
mainstreaming, especially in the diplomatic training and the Mission Administration
Management, Foreign Administration Attaché and Cadets programmes, which
prepare officials in leadership for mission assignments, where missions are also
expected to align to the policy priorities of the department.
Within the department, a healthy working environment is prioritised for ensuring
a healthy workforce. As such, the department, throughout the year, conducts
awareness  programmes on anti-sexual harassment and the provision of reasonable
accommodation for persons with disabilities. These programmes implement our
policies on labour relations and adherence to the 8-Principles Plan on Gender Equality
and Women Empowerment in the Workplace.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
36

Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
37

Measuring Our
Performance
PART C

Programme 1: Administration
Purpose: Provide strategic leadership, management and support services to the department
Description: Provide the leadership and support functions that enable the department to effectively and efficiently engage in its international activities
The key focus of the programme:
• maintains good financial management practices in order to sustain unqualified/clean audit outcomes
• addresses the skills and developmental needs of its officials, and supports the international relations competencies of partner departments
• provides legal and policy advice related to domestic and international law
• acts as primary counsel on international law matters for the Government as a whole
• acts as official custodian and depositary of the South African Treaty Collection
• supports the effective administration of the department, specifically through the provision of legal advice, legal services and assistance relating to all aspects of a
legislative, operational and departmental nature at Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions, and by managing the litigation cases against and
by the department in South Africa and abroad
• advances gender equality and women’s empowerment through gender mainstreaming by integrating gender perspectives into the preparation, design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and programmes
• creates an enabling environment for effective implementation of policies focussed on youth empowerment and advancements of rights of people with disabilities
• independently examines and evaluates the ongoing internal governance processes and provides counsel and recommendations for improvement, whenever there are
gaps identified during risk management.
Subprogramme Purpose
Ministry Provide political leadership
Departmental Management Provide strategic and administrative support to the department
Audit Services Monitor the development and implementation of effective and efficient internal control systems
Financial Management Provide financial management services
Corporate Services Provide effective, efficient and economical support services to the department
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development (DTRD) Provide diplomatic training, facilitate the provision of functional training in the department and conduct research
Foreign Fixed Assets Management Purpose: Provide and manage the State’s fixed assets foreign portfolio
Office Accommodation Manage the local property portfolio
5. Institutional Performance Information
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
40

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
A modern,
effective
department,
with capable
and skilled
employees,
which is
committed to
the excellent
execution of
South Africa’s
foreign policy
Improved
organisational
functioning
through an
enhanced
digital
environment
Number of
progress
reports on the
implementation
of the digital
strategy
New indicator Digital strategy
adopted
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
submitted
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
Unqualified
audit opinion
Number of
progress
reports on the
implementation
of Audit Action
Plan towards
unqualified
audit opinion
New indicator Qualified audit
opinion
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan submitted
towards
unqualified
audit opinion
with findings
achieved
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Audit
Action Plan
Maintain the
Unqualified
Audit Opinion
Maintain the
Unqualified
Audit Opinion
Improved
organisational
function
through
generic skills
development
programme
implementation
Number
of reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
New indicator Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
41

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Position the
Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
Number
of reports
on aspects
implemented
towards
positioning
the Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
New indicator ISO-certified
quality
management
system
maintained
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
New indicator Gap analysis
conducted and
implementation
plan on building
institutional
capacity to
deliver the AU/
UN languages
developed
Two training
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
submitted
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Framework
for building
partnerships
and networks
developed
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
submitted
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Gender
mainstreaming
by focussing on
women, youth
and persons
with disabilities.
Number
of gender
mainstreaming
initiatives
focussing on
women, youth
and persons
with disabilities
Six initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Eight outreach
initiatives to
support gender
mainstreaming
were
undertaken
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Four mentoring
and job
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting youth
Three
mentoring and
job shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting the
youth were
undertaken
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
42

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper
on the Rights
of Persons with
Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper
on the Rights
of Persons
with Disabilities
were
implemented
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Legal advice
and services
provided in
respect of
international
and domestic
law
Percentage of
legal advice
and services
rendered
100% (698)
legal services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% (389)
legal advice
and services
rendered:
• 100% (131)
response for
advice and
assistance on
international law
• 100% (258)
response for
advice and
assistance on
domestic law
100% (540)
legal advice
and services
rendered:
• 100% (206)
response for
advice and
assistance on
international law
• 100% (334)
response for
advice and
assistance on
domestic law
100% legal
services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% legal
services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
43

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of progress reports
on the implementation of the
Digital Strategy
Four progress reports on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
Number of progress reports
on the Audit Action Plan
towards achieving an
unqualified audit opinion
Four progress reports on the
implementation of the Audit
Action Plan
One progress report on the
implementation of the Audit
Action Plan
One progress report on the
implementation of the Audit
Action Plan
One progress report on the
implementation of the Audit
Action Plan
One progress report on the
implementation of the Audit
Action Plan
Number of reports on
training programmes
conducted in line with
Generic Skills Development
Programme
Four reports on training
programmes conducted
in line with Generic Skills
Development Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted
in line with Generic Skills
Development Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted
in line with Generic Skills
Development Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted
in line with Generic Skills
Development Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted
in line with Generic Skills
Development Programme
Number of reports on
aspects implemented
towards positioning the
Diplomatic Academy as
a centre of excellence in
foreign service training
Maintain ISO-certified quality
management system
SABS Audit Report issued
Two progress reports on the
delivery of AU/UN languages
One progress report on
the delivery of AU/UN
languages
One progress report on
the delivery of AU/UN
languages
Two progress reports on the
collaboration with partners to
enrich training programmes
of the academy
One progress report on
the collaboration with
partners to enrich training
programmes of the academy
One progress report on
the collaboration with
partners to enrich training
programmes of the academy
Number of gender
mainstreaming initiatives
focussing on women, youth
and persons with disabilities
Six initiatives to advance
gender equality and
women’s empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
One initiative to advance
gender equality and
women’s empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance
gender equality and
women’s empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance
gender equality and
women’s empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
One initiative to advance
gender equality and
women’s empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance
youth development and
empowerment
One initiative to advance
youth development and
empowerment
One initiative to advance
youth development and
empowerment
Two initiatives to mainstream
the rights of persons with
disabilities
One initiative to mainstream
the rights of persons with
disabilities
One initiative to mainstream
the rights of persons with
disabilities
Percentage legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and
services rendered
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
44

The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) is conscious of
the constrained economic climate the organisation is operating under, resulting in the
undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities call for organisational
renewal, innovation as well as the department’s transition towards a digitisation system
to assist the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and the five-
year strategic objectives. It also requires DIRCO to streamline its processes with a
specific emphasis on improving its digital environment through its Digital Strategy.
The department intends to improve organisational functioning, particularly through a
process of digital revolution by automating some processes to improve effectiveness.
An effective ICT as a core part of digital transformation will contribute effectively
towards the department’s efforts to positively respond to the fiscal constrains through
innovative technological advances, which intend permitting improvising in order to
continue to be effective towards its core mandate, without compromising the quality
of the outputs.
The department is thus committed to place ICT as an enabler in the process to improve
organisational functioning, working towards the automation and modern digitisation
of business processes, to reduce turnaround time and improve service delivery. This
has become more urgent in the light of the new normal the world is operating in.
There is an increasing demand for secure online platforms, which was necessitated
by the dramatic increase in virtual engagements.
Due to the reducing budget for the compensation of employees, it has been difficult
for the department to fill current vacant posts. This gap has been caused by an aging
workforce, natural attrition, the workforce composition numbers as well as succession
plans. This has led to a further process to review the structure of the department to
find ways to optimise the current staff establishment to maximise delivery on its ever-
increasing mandate across all programmes.
The department will, through its Diplomatic Academy, provide and facilitate quality
and responsive training that aims to develop and shape extraordinary diplomats to
advance South Africa’s interests in a dynamic world. Current trends in diplomacy,
particularly the digitisation of diplomacy, has a direct bearing on the training the
Diplomatic Academy offers. The academy will increase its utilisation of partnerships to
enrich training and in the light of the new normal, also focus more on online training.
In addition, the department has committed to offering UN and AU official languages
as well as to continue to meet international certification.
International law provides the rules regulating diplomatic interaction and relations
between states and the operation of international organisations. In this regard, the
department, through the Office of the Chief State Law Adviser (IL), will continue to
support the Government to achieve its foreign policy objectives by providing legal
advice on international law. The office also provides legal services and assistance
relating to all aspects of a legislative, operational and departmental nature at
Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions and by managing
litigation cases against and by the department in South Africa and abroad. It will
also continue to act as official custodian and depositary of the Official South African
Treaty Collection. It will also continue to monitor South Africa’s compliance with its
international obligations to submit national reports in terms of international agreements
and customary international law and report to Cabinet twice a year.
The Foreign Service Bill has been signed into an Act. Effective 28 August 2022, the
department is currently in a process of drafting the required regulations, codes and
directives to enable the implementation of the Foreign Service Act, 2019.
The department, during its planning of setting the objectives to be achieved over
the mid-term, committed to develop plans to improve the organisational function and
enhance its financial management in order to move to an unqualified audit outcome
with no finding.
Gender mainstreaming was established as a major global strategy for the promotion
of gender equality in the Beijing Platform for Action from the Fourth UN World
Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. Domestically, a normative framework on
gender equality informs government policies and programmes. These include the
National Policy Framework for Women’s Empowerment and Gender Equality of 2000,
also known as the Gender Policy Framework, which reflects South Africa’s vision for
gender equality and how it intends to realise this ideal. Gender mainstreaming is thus
regarded as an essential part of good governance and is therefore a critical tool for
the department in ensuring that policies and programmes respond to the needs and
interests of all employees. The department will be using it as a strategy that integrates
gender considerations as an integral dimension of the design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes with the ultimate goal of
achieving gender equality.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
45

To ensure mainstreaming and the distribution of benefits equitably between the
workforce, irrespective of gender and disability, the department will continue with
programmes that mainstream the rights of persons with disabilities. Despite the
existence of various policies, legislation and programmes that address disability as a
human rights and development issue, the mainstreaming of the rights of persons with
disabilities has gained traction with the adoption of the White Paper on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities (2016). The advancement of disability mainstreaming in the
department will include addressing barriers that exclude persons with disabilities from
participating equally and meaningfully in the work of DIRCO, including provision of
reasonable accommodation to employees with disabilities.
In South Africa, the youth represent more than a third of the population, with those
within the age group 15 to 34 constituting 34% of the population (2022 Statistics
South Africa Population Survey). Bearing this in mind, young people continue to face
serious challenges, and key among them is the problem of structural unemployment,
poverty and inequality. To address these challenges, the department will mainstream
youth development in its work guided by the NYP 2030. This cross-sectoral policy
is aimed at effecting positive youth development outcomes among young people at
local, provincial and national levels in South Africa.
DIRCO emphasises the importance of systematic attention to gender equality in
departmental policies, planning and programmes. This is ensured through the use
of the Gender Strategic Framework, which supports the vision of the Constitution
of equal representation of and participation by women in all workplace activities.
The framework further supports equal opportunities for skills development, upward
mobility and the advancement of women in the department at all levels.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period (continued)
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme1: Administration for the 2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The allocated budget for Administration
amounts to 26% of the total departmental budget for the 2023/24 financial year. The main cost drivers are office leases in South Africa and construction, refurbishment and
renovations of state-owned properties.
Resource Considerations
Subprogramme name   Audited outcome   Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Ministry         6 223         6 357           6 401           7 114           6 726           7 088         7 159
Departmental Management       15 415       17 552         13 766         12 600         10 066         10 608       10 717
Audit Services       25 943       17 144         16 328         23 319         19 358         19 393       19 789
Financial Management     172 402     174 485       175 092       195 937       202 233       203 371     207 846
Corporate Services     622 048     587 103       664 687       917 048       769 975       690 858     732 424
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development       53 272       43 533         44 497         56 397         59 542         60 020       61 020
Foreign Fixed Assets Management       16 233         7 913         18 086       117 139       194 726       256 815     252 978
Office Accommodation     383 478     412 018       409 744       447 910       452 998       488 280     525 734
Total   1 295 014   1 266 105   1 348 601   1 777 464   1 715 624   1 736 433   1 817 667
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
46

Economic classification   Audited outcome   Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Compensation of employees     496 550     485 093       488 745       504 717       508 134       524 729     532 406
Goods and services     635 921     606 879       661 363       774 604       782 919       811 775     864 255
Interest on rent and land     105 016     116 982       125 006       131 106       151 101       167 092     176 982
Transfers and subsidies         2 057         3 438           2 045           1 827           1 834           1 916           2 002
Payments for capital assets       55 470       39 317         69 679       365 210       271 636       230 921       242 022
Payments for financial assets              -         14 396           1 763                  -
Total   1 295 014   1 266 105   1 348 601   1 777 464   1 715 624   1 736 433   1 817 667
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 January 2023
Number of posts filled on 31 January
2023
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 3 2 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5)  133 109 1
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8)  335  276 6
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12)  345 261 9
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 69 50  5
Special advisers 2  2 0
Political office bearers 3 3  0
Total 890  703  21
DIRCO is conscious of the constrained economic climate the organisation is operating under, resulting in the undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities of the
compensation ceiling challenged the department’s officials to play different roles within the same position. Only critical posts were advertised and filled. Other vacant positions
within the establishment were not funded. The department’s transition towards a digitisation system assists the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and
the five-year strategic objectives of all programmes.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
47

Programme 2: International Relations
Purpose: Promote relations with foreign countries
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora.
Structured bilateral mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments to coordinate
South Africa’s positions and activities towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer to numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa
has with other countries.
These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. It is an important
platform for the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various departments, depending on the area of cooperation being
pursued.
Subprogramme Purpose
Africa Promote relations with countries in Africa
Asia and the Middle East Promote relations with countries in Asia and the Middle East
Americas and Caribbean Promote relations with countries in America and the Caribbean
Europe Promote relations with countries in Europe
5. Institutional Performance Information (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
48

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Leveraged
bilateral,
political,
economic
and social
relations to
achieve the
objectives of
the NDP and
the MTSF
priorities
Strengthen
bilateral relations
towards:
• contributing to
achievement of the
NDP
• alleviating triple
challenges
(inequality, poverty
and unemployment)
• achieving the MTSF
priorities
• promoting National
Interest
• promoting regional
and continental
priorities
• garnering support on
multilateral issues of
mutual interest
Number of
regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
New indicator Twelve regional
reports on
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanism
and high-
level visits
are aligned to
achievement
of the NDP
and MTSF as
identified in
the country
strategies
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Twelve regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
Increased
FDI and
contributed
to economic
growth in
South Africa
Contributed to
economic growth
in South Africa
through export
and investment
promotion by:
• exploring new
areas for trade
and investment,
ranging from primary,
secondary and
tertiary sectors
• nurturing and
expanding existing
trade and investment
• establishing
business-to-business
relations
Number of
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
New indicator Twelve regional
investment
strategy and
quarterly
progress
reports
submitted
 Twelve
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
Twelve
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
Twelve
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
Twelve
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
Twelve
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
49

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Contributed to
growth in the
tourism sector by
networking and
showcasing South
Africa’s diverse
tourism industry
Number of
regional reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
New indicator Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination,
and the
opportunities
and barriers
The outbreak
of the global
COVID-19
pandemic
severely
constrained
tourism-
promotion
efforts during
the reporting
period
International
travel
restrictions
and lockdown
measures
introduced
throughout
the global
community,
contributed
to the limited
implementation
of planned
tourism-
promotion
events and
initiatives
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination was
submitted
In line with
government’s
priorities to
accelerate
transformation
and create
jobs, tourism
has been
identified as
an enabler for
development
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
Twelve regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote
South Africa
as a preferred
tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
50

Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Regional Intergration
Increased
regional
integration
Contribution
towards
implementation
of regional
integration
and the
implementation
of the Revised
Regional
Indicative
Strategic
Development
Plan (RISDP)
Number of
assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and
• democracy
• the
Implementation of
the RISDP
New indicator Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
• democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation of
the RISDP
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
51

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and MTSF
Twelve regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP
and the MTSF
Number of quarterly
progress reports on
the regional trade and
investment initiatives
undertaken in support of  the
one government investment
approach
Twelve quarterly progress
reports on the regional trade
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Number of regional
tourism reports on tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Twelve regional tourism
reports on tourism-promotion
events to promote South
Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Regional Integration
Number of assessment
reports of South Africa’s
contribution towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the RISDP
Two assessment reports of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and
• stability
• socio-economic development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the RISDP
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
52

The execution of South Africa’s foreign policy is predicated on the achievement and
pursuit of national priorities. However, this is still within the framework of the greater
good of the region, the continent and the world. In this regard, the department will
support the seven strategic priorities of the Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF)
and will forge closer working relations with all government departments to become
more focussed on the execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The department
recognises that it is operating within a strained fiscal environment and cannot execute
all objectives simultaneously. It is therefore important to be strategically focussed in
terms of South Africa’s bilateral engagements and the department will therefore use
specific country strategies to guide all bilateral engagements. It is further recognised
that although South Africa may identify what to get out of a bilateral relationship, the
achievement thereof is not solely within its control.
Economic diplomacy is one of the key mechanisms in the achievement of national
interests through diplomatic means and complements traditional political diplomacy.
In this new reality, DIRCO will aggressively embark on economic diplomacy in order
to contribute in a more direct and concrete manner to achieve poverty eradication,
job creation and socio-economic development and growth, primarily by utilising the
resources it has in its missions abroad. In this process, DIRCO will become a catalyst
and operate as a networking agent for “South Africa Incorporated”. The missions, in
particular, have a key frontline role to play in the pursuit of economic diplomacy and its
component pillars such as FDI pledges as well as its contribution to tourism promotion
for South Africa. It is also recognised and acknowledged that DIRCO will source the
opportunities and will hand it over to the relevant domestic stakeholders for further
processing. In this regard, it is therefore difficult for DIRCO to set the targets that are
the result of the conclusion of a process that is not within its realm of responsibility.
The target-setting therefore recognises that DIRCO will source the opportunities and
will, through its diplomacy, monitor and follow up to collectively deliver on investment
and trade promotion.
The department recognises that bilateral engagements remain the pre-eminent basis
for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral
fora and will therefore continue to strengthen its bilateral political, economic and
social relations. This will be pursued through structured bilateral mechanisms as well
as high-level visits.
DIRCO has a dynamic role to play in the improvement of the lives of South Africans by
utilising its bilateral relations and global footprint in identifying strategic opportunities
for skills and knowledge development, targeted investments and growing markets for
South Africa’s products and services, in an integrated and inclusive manner (domestic
imperatives linked to international relations work). The focus of these activities will
contribute to the interventions and targets as outlined in the MTSF, in Priority Seven
and the sectors identified in priorities one to six. With specific focus on the increased
and improved access of South African products and services to foreign markets, this
will contribute to the aim of increasing manufacturing and thereby contribute to an
export-orientated economy
The department is committed to work for the betterment of the nation, the continent
and the world and will continue in the execution of its foreign policy by looking at
hard and soft issues. There is a further acknowledgement and awareness that the
world is changing rapidly, and we are required to be on the mark and absolutely
attuned with the ability to analyse, have effective responses and be relevant. This
is especially true after the COVID-10 pandemic and other wild cards, and there is
a recognition that South Africa’s foreign policy should be agile to respond to remain
relevant in the rapidly changing world. The department should prepare for emerging
and complex challenges (Brexit, the next phase of BRICS, tension on the Asian
subcontinent, climate change and its impact on the continent, migration, increased
poverty, landlessness, water scarcity and unplanned international migration) and its
possible impact on the delivery of our foreign policy objectives. This will be done with
a continued commitment to regional integration and the implementation of the RISDP,
with a clear focus on contributing to peace, stability, socio-economic development,
good governance and democracy.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, global traditional diplomacy, in the form of face-to-
face meetings, has had to be replaced by digital diplomacy, not only in South Africa,
but worldwide. Using virtual diplomacy means that countries were able to innovate
towards conducting their business in order to achieve pre-determined goals.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
53

The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 2: International Relations for the 2023 MTEF. The allocated budget for International Relations amounts to 51% of
the total departmental budget for the 2023/24 financial year. The budget allocation includes allocations for 116 missions in the Africa, Americas, Europe, Asia and Middle East
regions. The main cost drivers are foreign allowance, salaries and related benefits for Locally Recruited Personnel, leases of offices and residential accommodation abroad and
education allowance.
Resource Considerations
Subprogramme name   Audited outcome   Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Africa   1 011 594   1 016 156   1 030 208   1 129 598   1 102 138   1 144 582   1 196 117
Asia and Middle East       969 241       981 616       942 060       966 798       937 185       979 682   1 019 134
Americas and Caribbean       516 373       519 977       465 317       446 579       483 412       500 155       563 494
Europe       866 652       872 343       838 261       840 235       867 284       901 865       923 677
Total   3 363 860   3 390 092   3 275 846   3 383 210   3 390 019   3 526 284   3 702 422
Economic classification   Audited outcome   Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Compensation of employees  2 082 477  2 079 514   1 947 681   1 997 624   1 967 415   2 088 599   2 125 821
Goods and services  1 228 485  1 238 295   1 163 436   1 340 377   1 389 276   1 406 892   1 534 235
Interest on rent and land                     -
Transfers and subsidies         6 304       12 368         36 834         29 504         22 942         19 974         27 563
Payments for capital assets         2 346         3 870         15 189         15 705         10 386         10 819         14 803
Payments for financial assets       44 248       56 045       112 706                  -                    -                    -                    -
Total   3 363 860   3 390 092   3 275 846   3 383 210   3 390 019   3 526 284   3 702 422
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
54

DIRCO is conscious of the constrained economic climate the organisation is operating under, resulting in the undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities of the
compensation ceiling challenged the department officials to play different roles within the same position. Only critical posts were advertised and filled. The vacant positions in the
establishment could not be funded. The department’s transition towards a digitisation system assists the organisation to achieve more and deliver on its mandate and the five-
year strategic objectives for all programmes.
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 January 2023
Number of posts filled on 31 January
2023
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5)  13  8 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8)  214  187  0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 492  424  0
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 164  143  0
Special advisers  0 0 0
Political office bearers  0 0 0
Total  883  762  0
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
55

Programme 3: International Cooperation
Purpose: Participate in initiatives of international organisations and institutions in line with South Africa’s national values and foreign policy objectives
Subprogramme Purpose
Global System of Governance Participate in the global system of governance
Continental Cooperation Strengthen socio-economic and political development of the African continent
South-South Cooperation Strengthen South-South relations
North-South Dialogue Strengthen relations with the strategic formations of the North
5. Institutional Performance Information (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
56

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
3.1  Global System Of Governance
Proponent of
strengthening
multilateral
institutions
through
consistently
upholding
South Africa’s
principled
positions
South Africa’s
interests and
the African
Agenda
promoted and
reflected in
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
dealing with
peace and
security,
human rights,
economic
and social
development
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on
peace and
security,
human rights
and economic
and social
development
New indicator Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security,
• human rights and
• economic and
social development
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights and
• economic
and social
development
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights and
• economic
and social
development
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights and
• economic
and social
development
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights and
• economic
and social
development
Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights and
• economic
and social
development
Compliance
with South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Number of
reports on
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
New indicator Two reports
on the
implementation
of South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
were submitted
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
South Africa’s
leadership
and policy
advanced on
the regional,
continental and
global stage
Number of
positions on
identified
influential
multilateral
bodies where
South Africa is
represented
At the end of
March 2020,
the number
of positions
occupied by
South Africa (at
country, expert
and appointment
level) stood at 65
Not reported Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
Sixty positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
57

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
3.2  Continental Cooperation
United and
politically
cohesive
continent that
works towards
shared
prosperity and
sustainable
development
Africa
partnerships
recalibrated for
the effective
implementation
of the African
Union’s (AU)
Agenda 2063
Number of
assessment
reports
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and outcomes
of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
New indicator One monitoring
report on
South Africa’s
contribution
to the
perationalisation
of two identified
Agenda 2063
flagship projects
when it hosted
two back-to-
back summits
Two
assessment
reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa
partnerships
are aligned to
the AU Agenda
2063
Two
assessment
reports
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and outcomes
of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two
assessment
reports
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and outcomes
of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two
assessment
reports
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and outcomes
of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two
assessment
reports
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and outcomes
of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
South Africa
contributes
to continental
efforts aimed
at resolving
conflicts
Number of
reports on
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
New indicator Two reports on
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Two reports on
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Two reports on
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Two reports on
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
58

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
3.3  South-South Cooperation
South-South
relations
strengthened
and
consolidated
in
advancement
of national
and
continental
priorities
South-South
cooperation
utilised to
pursue South
Africa’s
National
Interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
3.4  North-South Cooperation
Relations
with the North
leveraged in
advancement
of national
and
continental
priorities
North-South
cooperation
utilised to
pursue South
Africa’s
National
Interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda:
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
59

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.1  Global System Of Governance
Number of reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Twelve reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Number of reports on
South Africa’s international
reporting obligations
Two reports on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
One report on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
One report on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international
reporting obligations
Number of positions
on identified influential
multilateral bodies where
South Africa is represented
Sixty positions on identified
influential multilateral bodies
maintained
Maintain 60 Maintain 60
3.2  Continental Cooperation
Number of assessment
reports reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
outcomes of:
• AU structures and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of Agenda 2063
Two assessment reports
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and outcomes
of:
• AU structures and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of Agenda 2063
One assessment report
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and outcomes
of:
• AU structures and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of Agenda 2063
One assessment report
reflecting South Africa
participation and outcomes
of:
• AU structures and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of Agenda 2063
Number of reports on South
Africa’s commitments and
efforts towards peace and
stability on the continent
Two reports on South
Africa’s commitments and
efforts towards peace and
stability on the continent
One report on South Africa’s
commitments and efforts
towards peace and stability
on the continent
One report on South Africa’s
commitments and efforts
towards peace and stability
on the continent
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
60

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.3  South-South Cooperation
Number of reports on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Four reports on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
3.4  North-South Cooperation
Number of reports on the
outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Two reports on the outcomes
of North-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
One report on the
outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting
South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that
of the African Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
61

DIRCO’s key focus should consistently be on actions to advance the development
of the African continent, advance human rights, promote respectful cooperation
between nations, actively participate in achieving peaceful resolution of conflicts and
support measures to achieve increased robust and inclusive economic development.
These are tough aspirations in a world that seems determined to be fractured and
tense. Multilateral cooperation is thus identified as the main vehicle for advancing key
foreign policy interests. As the global landscape of power and economy is changing,
it is clear that the conditions for multilateralism are changing with it.
South Africa’s multilateral interests at regional level are focussed on its membership
of SADC, at continental level, the AU and at global level, the United Nations (UN).
Other interests, which intersect with those mentioned above, include South Africa’s
membership of, among others, the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), the G77, the G20,
the Commonwealth and partnership arrangements. South Africa’s national position
is informed by its domestic policy imperative and its constitutional values, and also
reflect the African Agenda on Peace and Security, Human Rights and Economic and
Social Development.
Maintaining this extensive international presence becomes particularly challenging
in the current fiscally constrained environment. To enable strategic prioritisation of
South Africa’s membership of multilateral and multistate organisations, South Africa
embarked on developing a long-term strategy for its membership of multilateral and
multistate organisations, focussing on retaining and developing capacity in support of
continued effective membership in international organisations.
Regarding peace and security, South Africa will, among others, continue to focus on
the implementation of the Women, Peace and Security Agenda, will continue to seek
membership of the UN Peacebuilding Commission and pursue representation on the
AU Peace and Security Council.
On sustainable development, South Africa will continue to advance the implementation
of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), the AU Agenda 2063 and the
UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
South Africa will also continue to address the socio-economic and environmental
consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa by continuing to play a leading
role in global initiatives to mitigate the pandemic, among others, to optimise vaccine
development; support efforts to advance equitable access to affordable and accessible
COVID-19 vaccines; and provide additional support for debt-distressed countries to
assist with post-COVID-19 economic recovery.
South Africa’s foreign policy is predicated on the principles of human rights and
its engagements are premised on the need to influence norms and standards in
the international human rights system and related fields, as well as strengthening
governance within the system. This is with a view to realise human rights for all,
bearing in mind that they are universal, indivisible, interdependent and inter-related.
In 2022, South Africa was elected to serve on the Human Rights Council for a three-
year term commencing on 1 January 2023.
The global environment is increasingly shaped by rising nationalism and unilateralism,
and a retreat from the traditional rules-based multilateral system of global governance
will present steep challenges to navigate in repositioning the continent as a regional
economic force to be reckoned with.
South Africa remains strongly committed to and invested in support of building unity,
inclusive economic development and shared prosperity for the African continent and
its peoples. It will therefore be incumbent on South Africa as the outgoing Chair of
the AU Troika, to be at the forefront of efforts to strengthen and capacitate the AU to
more effectively address challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic and to harness
opportunities confronting Africa in a precarious, volatile and constantly evolving and
shifting geopolitical landscape.
As such, further efforts will be made to build strong, sustainable and resilient regional
and continental mechanisms able to support our national efforts to deliver sustainable
and inclusive economic opportunities for South Africans, in particular women and
youth, as a buffer against unrest, instability, terrorism and violent extremism on our
continent.
Democracy and good governance are critical to laying the foundations for sustainable
development to take place in Africa. As such, South Africa has consistently called for
full compliance with the norms and instruments of the AU in support of democracy
and good governance on the continent as articulated in the African Charter on
Democracy, Elections and Governance and others towards ensuring the achievement
of sustainable and lasting peace in conflict and post-conflict settings in Africa.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
62

The advancement of international law and a multilateral response to pressing global
matters such as climate change, sustainable development, human rights law, terrorism,
international criminal law, disarmament and non-proliferation, economic relations and
the peaceful settlement of disputes will also continue. Respect for international law
will carry on and form the basis for political and economic relations.
The official South African Treaty Register will remain a source of information to assist
South Africa in recording the agreements that have to be implemented and that
can deliver prosperity to its citizens. South Africa’s compliance with its international
obligations to submit national reports in terms of international agreements and
customary international law will continue to be monitored.
The department plans to continue to ensure compliance with all South Africa’s
international reporting obligations as well as to enhance all continental cooperation
towards South-South and North-South cooperation, while advancing the development
agenda.
For South Africa to promote its National Interest in the multilateral system, it must
actively participate in negotiations and influence the outcomes of multilateral
processes and meetings as stipulated in the National Development Plan. South Africa
will also continue to advocate for a reformed rules-based global system, which is
equitable as well as responsive to South Africa’s needs in particular, and the needs of
Africa and other developing countries in general.
Furthermore, the adoption of International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention
190, which seeks to eliminate gender-based violence and harassment (GBVH) in
the world of work and the adoption of Recommendation 206, are part of sustained
actions to stop GBVH and create safer workplaces. This move complements existing
legislation and policy documents such as the National Strategy on Gender-Based
Violence and Femicide as well as the National Action Plan (NAP) on Women, Peace
and Security (WPS).
This year, South Africa is pursuing partnering for change to translate the WPS
Agenda into action through our role as the co-chairs of the Global Network of National
Focal Points of WPS as well as the current chairs of the Commission on the Status
of Women (CSW).  This action embodies the idea of cooperation between states,
regional, international organisations and civil society as a source for innovative and
transformative strategies to advance the implementation of the WPS Agenda.
The Charlotte Maxeke African Women’s Economic Justice and Rights (AWERJ)
Initiative will support South Africa’s role in the Generation Equality Forum (GEF) and
the leadership role in the Action Coalition on Economic Justice and Rights. It will be
bold, transformational and concrete and will seek to mobilise the global community
behind the GEF Global Acceleration Plan and particularly the Action Coalition on
Economic Justice and Rights; contribute towards changing gender stereotypes and
negative social norms that continue to reduce the role of women and girls in the
society broadly and in the economy in particular; and prioritise the education and
training of adolescent girls and young women as a catalyst for women empowerment.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
63

The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 3: System of Global Governance; Continental Cooperation; South-South Cooperation; and North-South Cooperation
for the 2023 MTEF, consisting of five missions’ allocations abroad. The allocated budget amounts to 8% of the total departmental budget for the 2023/24 financial year. The
main cost drivers are foreign allowance, salaries and related benefits for Locally Recruited Personnel, leases of offices and residential accommodation abroad and education
allowance.
Resource Considerations
Subprogramme name   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Global System of Governance       389 715       378 536       343 830       357 113       388 066       404 475       402 959
Continental Cooperation         80 983         70 987         58 202         74 643         79 968         84 608         81 125
South-South Cooperation           5 063           4 375           4 462           5 531           5 426           5 713           5 794
North-South Dialogue         73 821         78 713         65 689         70 597         88 876         94 415         95 921
Total       549 582       532 611       472 183       507 884       562 336       589 211       585 799
Economic classification   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Compensation of employees       378 361       376 575       340 873       340 642       372 417       396 009       386 187
Goods and services       160 376       137 544       133 447       159 622       186 358       189 344       195 581
Interest on rent and land - - - - - - -
Transfers and subsidies           1 962           2 264           1 899           3 276           3 202           3 483           3 639
Payments for capital assets              405              721           1 833           4 344              359              375              392
Payments for financial assets           8 478         15 507 -                 5 869 - - - -
Total       549 582       532 611       472 183       507 884       562 336       589 211       585 799
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
64

Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 January 2023
Number of posts filled on 31 January
2023
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5)  6 5 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8)  58  44 1
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12)  147  124 0
Senior management (Levels 13-16)  34  27 0
Special advisers  0 0 0
Political office bearers  0 0 0
Total  245 200  1
DIRCO is conscious of the constrained economic climate the organisation is operating under, resulting in the undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities of the
compensation ceiling challenged the department officials to play different roles within the same position. Only critical posts were advertised and filled. The vacant positions in
the establishment could not be funded. The department’s transition towards a digitisation system assists the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and the
five-year strategic objectives for all programmes.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
65

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Domestic
and foreign
audiences
informed of
South Africa's
foreign policy
objectives and
priorities
Rapid and
timeous
support to
missions on
domestic
and global
developments
Number of
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
New indicator Twenty-five
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Sixty-four key
messages were
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Platforms
utilised to
inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to
domestic and
international
audiences
Number of
platforms
utilised to
inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to
domestic and
international
audiences
Fifteen Public
Participation
Programmes
(PPPs)
Twelve PPPs
held by political
principals
where
audiences were
engaged via
webinars on
domestic and
international
developments
12 PPPs
held where
audiences were
engaged via
webinars on
domestic and
international
developments.
Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs Twelve PPPs
Fourteen
opinion pieces
published
Sixteen
opinion pieces
published
Twelve
opinion pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Programme 4: Public Diplomacy And Protocol Services
Purpose: Communicate South Africa’s role and position in international relations in the domestic and international arenas and provide State Protocol Services
Subprogramme Purpose
Public Diplomacy Promote a positive projection of South Africa’s image
Protocol Services Provide protocol and ceremonial services
5. Institutional Performance Information (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
66

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Nine key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Three sets of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Three sets of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Two sets of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
One set of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Number of platforms utilised
to inform and promote South
Africa’s foreign policy to
domestic and international
audiences
Twelve PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs
Nine opinion pieces published One opinion piece published Three opinion pieces
published
Three opinion pieces
published
Two opinion pieces published
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Improved
compliance
with the
diplomatic
regulatory
framework
Professional
protocol
services
rendered
to incoming
and outgoing
visits
Percentage
of requests
for protocol
services
rendered
to incoming
and outgoing
visits
100% (53)
of state visit
services
rendered
100% (18) of protocol
services rendered
to all incoming and
outgoing state, official
and working visits
• incoming:15
• outgoing: 3
100% (42) of protocol
services rendered to
all in and outgoing
state, official and
working visits:
• Incoming:23
• Outgoing:19
100% of
protocol
services
rendered
to incoming
outgoing visits
100% of
protocol
services
rendered to
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of
protocol
services
rendered to
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of
protocol
services
rendered
to incoming
and
outgoing
visits
• Consular
services
rendered
• Percentage
of requests
for consular
assistance
rendered
• 100% (929) of
consular services
rendered
• 100% (30 779) cases
reported to DIRCO were
responded to as per
Service-Delivery Charter:
• citizens in distress: 30 458
• whereabouts: three
• mortal remains: 124
• adoptions: 0
• abductions: five
• detainees/prisoners: 24
• services of civil process:
149
• extraditions: 16
• 100% (740) cases reported
to DIRCO were responded
to as per the Service
Delivery Charter:
• citizens in distress: 250
• whereabouts: 17
• mortal remains: 161
• adoptions: 0
• abductions: nine
• detainees/prisoners: 37
• services of civil process:
225
• extraditions: 41
• 100% of
consular services
rendered
• 100% of
consular services
rendered
• 100% of
consular services
rendered
• 100% of
consular
services
rendered
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
67

Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Legalised
services
rendered
Percentage
of documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines set
in the Service
Delivery
Charter
100% (82 644)
of documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines set
in the Service
Delivery
Charter
100% (37 551) of
documents legalised
100% (54 816) of
documents legalised
100% of
documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines set
in the Service
Delivery
Charter
100% of
documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines set
in the Service
Delivery
Charter
100% of
documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines set
in the Service
Delivery
Charter
100% of
documents
legalised in
accordance
with the
guidelines
set in the
Service
Delivery
Charter
Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Percentage of requests for
protocol services rendered
to incoming and outgoing
visits
100% of protocol services
rendered to incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol services
rendered to incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol services
rendered to incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol services
rendered to incoming and
outgoing visits
100% of protocol services
rendered to incoming and
outgoing visits
Percentage of requests
for consular assistance
rendered
100% of consular services
rendered
100% of consular services
rendered
100% of consular services
rendered
100% of consular services
rendered
100% of consular services
rendered
Percentage of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
100% of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
100% of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
100% of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
100% of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
100% of documents
legalised in accordance with
the guidelines set in the
Service Delivery Charter
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
68

The Branch: Public Diplomacy (PD) will focus its budget allocation on expanding the
reach of its platforms, with a specific focus on taking “foreign policy to the people”.
The range of platforms includes, but are not limited to, Ubuntu Magazine, Ubuntu
NewsFlash, Ubuntu Radio, Ubuntu TV, etc. These platforms inform, highlight and
celebrate the achievements of government and non-state actors in projecting South
Africa positively abroad and the role played by South Africa on the international stage.
Other key platforms are the public participation programmes (PPPs) and annual
events, including the Diplomatic Fun Fair, Africa Day celebrations, etc. These also
include public lectures, symposia, outreach programmes and engagements with
government departments and other stakeholders. The branch will strengthen working
relationships with like-minded institutions such as BrandSA, South African Tourism,
etc. to continue to chart a uniquely South African image that aims to bring much-
needed investment and tourism opportunities to our shores.
COVID-19 restrictions have heightened the need for digital diplomacy, undertaken
through popular social networking sites such as Twitter, Facebook, Linkedln, YouTube,
news websites, webinars, virtual briefings and video conferencing.
The current digital revolution and technological advances remain a key interest, and
the branch’s key challenge is to invest in new technologies to broaden its current
reach. As it has been effective and beneficial in the execution of its mandate, the
branch aims to increase its reach on social media by expanding and strengthening its
use of key social media platforms. These platforms also complement Ubuntu Radio,
which remains a key medium of communication in the execution of the PD Strategy
and stimulation of dialogue on issues that affect South Africa, the continent and
partners across the globe.
The Centre for Early Warning offers a 24-hour communications, information, logistical
and stand-by support service relating to issues relevant to DIRCO and other
government departments, South African missions abroad and the public at large, and
often serves as a call centre to disseminate information during a crisis.
State Protocol is providing the service in line with the Vienna Convention and provision
of the privileges as agreed upon by countries.
Consular Services provides effective and efficient consular and notarial services to
South African nationals travelling, working, studying and/or living abroad. Emergency
consular services can be described as services rendered to South African nationals
who are distressed, destitute or seriously injured, and assistance rendered to the next
of kin in case of death or being involved in natural or man-made disasters as well
as the repatriations from distressed South Africa citizens from Ukraine and Russia.
The department continues to address the challenge of the increase in South African
citizens arrested abroad due to drug trafficking and false employment promises and
crimes committed in many South Africa visa-free countries
Consular notarial services are another form of consular assistance rendered to South
African citizens and foreign nationals requiring South African public documents to
be legalised for use abroad. These services are rendered to provide legal validity to
South African public documents to enable a person to use the documents outside
South Africa.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
69

The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services for the 2023 MTEF, consisting of two subprogrammes, namely: Public
Diplomacy and Protocol Services. The allocated budget amounts to 4% of the total departmental budget for the 2023/24 financial year.
The main cost drivers are travel and subsistence expenses for state and official visits and municipal rates and taxes for qualifying properties owned by foreign diplomatic missions
and international organisations resident in the Republic of South Africa.
Resource Considerations
Subprogramme name   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Public Diplomacy 69 401 47 227 58 905 71 337 64 763 67 880 69 408
Protocol Services 219 645 188 103 203 642 232 085 192 192 203 316 225 466
Total 289 046 235 330 262 547 303 422 256 955 271 196 294 874
Economic classification   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Compensation of employees 185 119 179 730 174 583 182 602 158 924 160 179 157 218
Goods and services 103 000 53 921 86 793 117 497 96 203 109 107 135 660
Interest on rent and land -    -    -    -    -                     -   -
Transfers and subsidies 927 1 572 1 153 1 783 1 790 1 870 1 954
Payments for capital assets -    107 8 1 540 38 40 42
Payments for financial assets  -  - 10  - - -    -
Total       289 046       235 330 262 547 303 422 256 955 271 196 294 874
*To be updated in February 2023
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
70

Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment on 31 January 2023
Number of posts filled on 31 January
2023
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5)  22 14 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8)  169 138 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12)  135  83 0
Senior management (Levels 13-16)  24  18 0
Special advisers 0 0 0
Political office bearers 0 0 0
Total  350 253 0
DIRCO is conscious of the constrained economic climate the organisation is operating under, resulting in the undisputable need to do more with less. The current realities of the
compensation ceiling challenged the department officials to play different roles within the same position. Only critical posts were advertised and filled. The vacant positions in
the establishment could not be funded. The department’s transition towards a digitisation system assists the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and the
five-year strategic objectives for all programmes.
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
71

Outcomes, Outputs, Performance Indicators And Targets
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25 2025/26
Strengthen
multilateralism
through
membership
fees and
contributions
South Africa
fulfilling its
continental
and global
responsibilities
Number of
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
No target Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
amounting to
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Programme 5: International Transfers
Purpose: Fund membership fees and transfers to international organisations
Subprogramme Purpose
Departmental agencies Facilitate transfer of funds to the public entity
Membership contributions Facilitate transfers to international organisations
5. Institutional Performance Information (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
72

Indicators, Annual And Quarterly Targets
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of reports on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
Four quarterly reports on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
One quarterly report on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
One quarterly report on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
One quarterly report on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
One quarterly report on
payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
The department will continue to honour payments, which arise from obligations
undertaken by South Africa at international, regional and subregional multilateral
levels. The payments, which are made by the department, generally take the form of:
• membership dues to organisations such as the UN, AU, SADC and the
Commonwealth
• contributions to peacekeeping operations of the UN
• meetings of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa
is a member, and in which South Africa has participated
• voluntary pledges that South Africa has made to international organisations for
the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical assistance, etc.
The MTSF (2019 – 2024) requires that South Africa contributes to a better South Africa
and better region and to secure the advancement of South Africa’s National Interest.
This can only be realised through the payment of South African contributions to
international organisations in full and on time. Therefore, under its outcome, “Agenda
2030 and Agenda 2063”, it is required that South Africa honours its obligations towards
the UN, SADC and the AU, including the institutions hosted in South Africa i.e. Pan-
African Parliament, New Partnership for Africa’s Development, African Peer Review
Mechanism, African Commission on Nuclear Energy and Pan-African University on
Space Science and transfrontier conservation areas. This requires the settlement of
all assessed contributions as required by the respective international organisations.
Explanation Of Planned Performance Over The Medium-Term Planning Period
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
73

The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 5: International Transfers for the 2023 MTEF, which consists of the departmental agencies’ allocation to the African
Renaissance and international Cooperation Fund and South African Development Partnership Agency as well as international membership contributions to organisations such
as, among others, the AU, SADC, UN, India-Brazil-South Africa Trust Fund, Commonwealth of Nations, etc. The allocated budget amounts to 11% of the total departmental
budget for the 2023/24 financial year.
Resource Considerations
Subprogramme name   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Departmental agencies 46 272 47 840 48 546 61 370 62 075 64 863 67 768
Membership contribution 824 778 773 966 629 287 750 968 707 064 804 228 834 431
Total 871 050 821 806 677 833 812 338 769 139 869 091 902 199
Economic classification   Audited outcome  Adjusted
appropriation  Medium-term estimates
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
 Rand thousand  2019/20  2020/21  2021/22  2022/23  2023/24  2024/25  2025/26
Transfers and subsidies 871 050 821 806 677 833 812 338 769 139 869 091 902 199
Total 871 050 821 806 677 833 812 338 769 139 869 091 902 199
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
74

Outcome Key Risk Mitigation Strategies
A modern, effective department with capable and skilled
employees that is committed to the excellent execution of
South Africa’s foreign policy
• Outdated ICT system
• Adaptation to digital change
• Inadequate Head Office-Mission interface
• Continued impact of the pandemic and disruption
• Impact of foreign exchange fluctuations
• Structured change management processes
• Up-skilling and reskilling of personnel how far is the plan for the
reskilling
• Improve systems
• Improve support to missions
Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and social relations
to achieve the objectives of the NDP and the MTSF priorities
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes
• Inadequate interface between some key stakeholders both at missions
and Head Office
• To be agile and responsive to international changes, engage in
scenario planning and forecasting and to also consider reprioritisation in
response to international changes
Increased FDI and contributed to economic growth in South
Africa
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes, such as COVID-19,
negatively impacting the economic growth
• Sectors working in isolation
• Lack of synergy between partner departments
• Perception by foreign investors that their investments in South Africa
would not be secured/protected as a result of a poor understanding of
South Africa’s national policies, leading to a reluctance by them to invest
in the country
• To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to international
changes
• Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms
Increased regional integration • Influence from outside the region on the implementation of the SADC
programme as encapsulated in the SADC Blueprints
• Lack of financial resources within the SADC Secretariat in the
implementation of summit and council decisions as well as SADC’s work
programme
• Lack of political will and resources within the member states to
implement programmes and projects
• Potential for destabilising elements in the region
• Engage SADC member states bilaterally on the implementation of
SADC decisions
• To engage international cooperating partners to secure funding without
preconditions for the implementation of identified SADC programmes/
projects
• Engage SADC member states bilaterally on their respective
responsibilities to work towards the implementation of SADC decisions
• Placing South Africa as a credible interlocutor on the international stage
United and politically cohesive continent that works towards
shared prosperity and sustainable development
• Negative external actor involvement
• Potential for destabilising developments on the continent
• Increased AU coordination and regional economic community cohesion
South-South relations strengthened and consolidated in
advancement of national and continental priorities
• Divisions within the South • Coordinated approach to issues of common concern
Relations with the North leveraged in advancement of
national and continental priorities
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes
• Lack of synergy between partner departments
• To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to international
changes
• Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms
• Whole-of-government approach to develop strategies for engagements
• Improve policy coordination
6. Updated Key Risks
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
75

Outcome Key Risk Mitigation Strategies
Domestic and foreign audiences informed of South Africa's
foreign policy objectives and priorities
• Outdated technology
• Divergent views emanating from South Africa on foreign policy
• Digital transformation and modernisation of ICT
• Stronger interdepartmental coordination on international relations
activities
Improved compliance with the regulatory framework • Dependencies on key stakeholders
• Lack of cooperation with key stakeholders
• Improved communication
• Strengthen partnerships with signed memoranda of understanding
Name Of Public Entity Mandate Outcomes Current Annual Budget
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF)
To enhance cooperation between the
Republic and other countries, in particular
African countries, through the promotion
of democracy, good governance, the
prevention and resolution of conflict, social-
economic development and integration,
humanitarian assistance and human
resource development
Disbursement of development aid to
enhance cooperation between the Republic
and other countries to:
• promote democracy and good governance
• contribute to prevention and resolution of conflict
• support socio-economic development and
integration
• provide humanitarian assistance (impact of the
judgement on the implementation of objectives of
this fund)
• non-performance of the fund objective
implementation of the objectives of ARF due to red
tape
                   R49 699 000
7. Public Entities
6. Updated Key Risks (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
76

No Project Name Project
Description Outputs Project Start
Date
Project
Completion
Date
Total
Estimated
Project Cost
Current Year
Expenditure
1 Disposal of unused properties at various
missions
Disposal of
properties
Properties
disposed
2021/2022 2025/26         7 300 000,00  1 908 328,67
2 New Delhi: Feasibility and planning
for construction of new Chancery and
Official Residence
Planning and
construction of
Chancery and
Official Residence
New Chancery and
Official Residence
constructed
2022/23 2024/25      35 000 000,00       157 082,06
3 Luanda: Feasibility and planning for
construction of Official Residence
Planning and
construction of
Official Residence
New Official
residence
2023/24 2024/25      10 000 000,00       1 442 750,39
4 Copenhagen: Renovation for the
Chancery and Official residence
Renovation of the
Chancery and
Official Residence
Properties
renovated
2023/24 2024/25      12 995 000,00                      0,00
5 Vienna: Renovation for the Chancery
and Official residence
Renovation of the
Official Residence
Chancery
Properties
renovated
2020/21 2024/25         6 400 000,00    14 908 975,32
6 London: Renovation works following
conditions assessment report: Chancery,
Official and staff residences
Renovation of
Chancery, Official
Residences and
staff residences
Properties
renovated
2022/23 2024/25         7 500 000,00          123 423,38
7 Rome: Renovation of the Official
Residence
Renovation of the
identified works
in the Official
Residence
Properties
renovated
2022/23 2024/25         5 000 000,00            705 135,40
8 Maseru: Renovation works following
condition assessment report: Official
Residence
Renovation of the
Official Residence
Properties
renovated
2022/23 2024/25         5 610 000,00                        0,00
9 Mbabane: Refurbishment of Official
residence
Renovation of the
Official Residence
and Chancery
Properties
renovated
2023/24 2024/25         6 683 000,00          143 099,66
10 Conditions assessment: Various State-
Owned Properties abroad
Conditions
assessment of
properties
Conditions
assessment report
provided
2022/23 2023/24      11 000 000,00      R1 018 000,00
8. Infrastructure Projects
*To be updated in February 2023
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
77

PPP Purpose Outputs Current Value of
Agreement End Date of Agreement
Head Office accommodation for
DIRCO
Financing, design, construction,
operation and maintenance of
a Head Office and guesthouse
facilities
Financing, design, renovation and
structural maintenance of state-
owned guesthouse facility
New Head Office and guesthouse
constructed
Head Office and guesthouse
maintained and operated by
on-site facilities management
company
Furniture, fittings and equipment
installed, maintained and replaced
at agreed intervals
State-owned guesthouse
renovated and structurally
maintained
2023/24 indicative unitary fee:
R312 715 842.00 million per
annum (including VAT)
September 2034
9. Public-Private Partnership (PPP)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
78

Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
79

Technical Indicator
Description (TID)
PART D

Indicator Title Number of progress reports on the implementation of the digital strategy
Definition
To enhance the digital environment, DIRCO has a detailed road map and a detailed implementation plan of the approved strategy. To ensure
the appropriateness, the strategy needs to be monitored and assessed to determine the relevance of the strategic direction on concluded and
ongoing identified projects. The strategy contains eight digital strategic objectives-related projects.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: ICT
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Cumulative
Means Of Verification Signed report
Assumptions Buy-in from key stakeholders
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable)
The beneficiaries of the strategic objectives in allocation of compatibility of tools of trade will be allocated to persons with disabilities
Program software’s specifications for the targeted reasonable accommodation for the disclosed disabilities
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Biannually
Desired Performance Accelerated implementation of the Digital Strategy
Indicator Responsibility Office of the Chief Information Officer
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
82

Indicator Title Number of progress reports on the implementation of Audit Action Plan
Definition It is important that the department implements the Audit Action Plan to improve the audit outcome. The department will monitor the action plan
on a quarterly basis to make sure that there is progress in the prevention and correction of audit findings.
Source Of Data Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Progress on the Audit Action Plan
Means Of Verification Signed report
Assumptions Audit Action Plan implemented and monitored, leading to improvement in audit outcome
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Unqualified audit opinion
Indicator Responsibility Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
83

Indicator Title Number of reports on training programmes conducted in line with Generic Skills Development Programme
Definition
Training in skills development programmes implemented and monitored, leading to improvement in productivity and service delivery. It is
imperative that DIRCO functions optimally and proficiency is vital. Relevant skills will assist with the requirement to have excellent workmanship.
These will also explore DIRCO’s contribution to promoting gender equality, in particular the programmes for women, girls, youth and persons
with disabilities during international engagements.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed report
Assumptions Training requests received
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Training done as per Performance Development Plan
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: Corporate Management
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
84

Indicator Title Three identified aspects of a centre of excellence in foreign service training implemented
Definition
The academy is expected to deliver quality programmes that adhere to international standards and the standard for the management thereof
will be linked to have a certified Quality Management System (QMS). It is furthermore imperative that for the Diplomatic Corps to function
optimally, foreign language proficiency is vital and the academy will strive to enhance its capability to offer such. The importance of establishing
partnerships and networks with strategic institutions, both at the national and international level, will be prioritised in pursuit of the objective
of striving to be a centre of excellence.
Source Of Data Diplomatic Academy
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Valid ISO certificate, signed reports in AU languages and establishing partnerships
Assumptions Not applicable
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) In line with vulnerable groups, equity and ranking
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Higher performance is desirable. Maintaining ISO-certified QMS
Indicator Responsibility Diplomatic Academy
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
85

Indicator Title Number of gender mainstreaming initiatives focussing on women, youth and persons with disabilities
Definition
Initiatives undertaken towards creating an enabling environment for the promotion of women empowerment, youth development and persons
with disabilities. These will include the establishment of monitoring mechanisms to assess the implementation and reporting of information
towards institutionalising mainstreaming by the department.
The department will track initiatives on promoting women empowerment, youth development and people with disabilities.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative and quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports/attendance registers/policy and assessment reports in either draft or final/templates
Assumptions Active participation in initiatives; officials declare their disabilities
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable)
Target for women initiatives: Six
Targets for youth initiatives: Two
Target for people with disabilities initiative: Two
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Institutionalisation of women empowerment, youth development and people with disabilities
Indicator Responsibility Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
86

Indicator Title Percentage of legal advice and services rendered
Definition OCSLA (IL) provides legal advice, legal services and policy advice to all aspects of domestic and international law.
Source Of Data Statistics from Legal Services
Method Of Calculation/Assessment
The following formula is used to calculate:
Percentage of legal advice and services rendered =
(Numerator (Requests responded to)
*100
(Denominator (Requests received)
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions There are written requests for legal advice
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Non-cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance On target: 100% of legal advice and services rendered
Indicator Responsibility OCSLA (IL)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
87

Indicator Title Number of regional political reports, including the outcomes of structured bilateral mechanisms and high-
level visits aligned to the achievement of the NDP and MTSF
Definition
South Africa strengthens and consolidates its political, economic and social relations through different engagements.
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement
in multilateral fora.
Structured bilateral mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign policy
instruments to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer to numerous
regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries and is governed by a signed agreement. These meetings
usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions.
High-level meetings, for the purposes of our report, denote meetings at the level of President, Deputy President, DIRCO Minister, Deputy
Ministers, Director-General and Deputy Director-General.
Source Of Data Bilateral branches
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions South Africa’s objectives can be pursued with the identified bilateral partner
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Higher performance is desired – alignment between country strategies against domestic priorities
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
88

Indicator Title Number of quarterly progress reports on the regional trade and investment initiatives undertaken in
support of the one government investment approach
Definition
When drafting the country strategies to guide South Africa’s bilateral relations with identified countries and the continent, an assessment will
guide in terms of trade and investment opportunities. The MTSF has identified the sourcing of new markets for South African products and
increasing FDI. Through its missions, the department contributes towards economic growth in South Africa through export and investment
promotion by:
• exploring new areas for trade and investment, ranging from primary, secondary and tertiary sectors
• nurturing and expanding existing trade and investment
• establishing business-to-business relations.
A quarterly progress report will reflect work done on trade promotion and sourcing of investment.
Source Of Data Bilateral branches
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions Investment opportunities exist that can be pursued
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Reports will include beneficiaries of engagements disaggregated by gender, age and disability
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance More investment and trade opportunities
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
89

Indicator Title
Number of regional reports on tourism-promotion events to encourage South Africa as a preferred tourist
destination, thereby contributing to growth in the tourism sector in support of the one government tourism
approach
Definition
Engagements in tourism events with sector role players (travel agencies and tour operators) in host governments in a concerted effort to
promote South Africa as a favourable tourism destination for business and leisure (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events [MICE]) and
as a safe and value-for-money destination of choice. The aim of tourism promotion is to contribute to growth in the tourism sector. It is also part
of the missions’ activities to promote South Africa at events such as national days. It is also important for missions to identify opportunities for
increased international tourist arrivals to South Africa, as well as the barriers.
Source Of Data Bilateral branches
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions Tourism-promotion events take place within the limitations of any developments in the global environment
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Higher performance is desired – an increase in tourist arrivals to contribute towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic priorities
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
90

Indicator Title
Number of assessment reports of South Africa’s contribution towards:
• peace and stability
• socio-economic development
• good governance
• democracy
• regional integration, and the implementation of the RISDP
Definition
South Africa participates in continental meetings and structures in order to advance the national agenda and the needs to regularly assess
its participation against the regional integration agenda.  SADC has developed a RISDP for member states with specific projects to advance
regional integration.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: SADC
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions Partner departments submit the required information, indicating if there is progress in South Africa against the prioritised projects in the
RISDP
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annually
Desired Performance Effective contribution towards peace, stability, socio-economic development, good governance, democracy and regional integration; and the
implementation of the revised RISDP towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic priorities
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: Africa
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
91

Indicator Title
Number of reports on the outcomes of multilateral and multistate organisations reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests, including that of the African Agenda, on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social development
Definition
South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities for South Africa as reflected in the NDP, as well as
to advance the objectives of Agenda 2063 and Agenda 2030.
A limitation on the indicator performance is that South Africa is not in control of the outcomes of multilateral meetings and structures. Whether
or not South Africa’s national interests are reflected in these outcomes, depends on negotiated agreements and consensus reached. In many
cases, the outcome represents the lowest common denominator.
Source Of Data Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Simple addition
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions Interdepartmental meetings taking place to agree on South Africa’s position, having the country’s position approved prior to South Africa’s
participation at international fora
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance South Africa’s foreign policy objective pursued in areas of peace and security, human rights and economic and social development
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
92

Indicator Title Number of reports on South Africa’s international reporting obligations
Definition South Africa has an international obligation to submit national reports in terms of international agreements it is a party to. Line-function
departments submit national reports, while DIRCO monitors the submission of the reports and provides feedback to Cabinet.
Source Of Data Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions The partner departments provide the required reports as per the reporting obligations
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annual
Desired Performance South Africa is 100% compliant with submitting national reports
Indicator Responsibility Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
93

Indicator Title Number of positions on identified influential multilateral bodies where South Africa is represented
Definition
South Africa has to identify and take up positions at influential multilateral bodies where it is represented. Most of these positions are available
on a rotational basis and, once available, South Africa needs to field a suitable candidate and lobby for support to get the candidate elected.
South Africa is represented at identified multilateral bodies to promote its national interests and influence resolutions, decisions and outcomes.
Representation can be both at country and at expert level.
Source Of Data Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports
Assumptions Positions in multilateral bodies in areas in which South African citizens have skills and may be appointed
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annual
Desired Performance More South African experts appointed to multilateral bodies
Indicator Responsibility Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
94

Indicator Title Number of assessment reports reflecting South African participation and outcomes of the AU structures
and process, AU partnerships and implementation of Agenda 2063
Definition
South Africa participates in the AU and its organs to advance the First Ten-Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063 and its identified flagship
projects. The engagement is informed by South Africa’s vision of an African continent, which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial,
non-sexist and united, and which contributes to a world that is just and equitable. South Africa therefore endeavours to contribute to the
operationalisation of identified Agenda 2063 flagship projects.
South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities for South Africa itself as reflected in the NDP, as
well as to advance the objectives of Agenda 2063 and Agenda 2030. South Africa is not in control of the outcomes of multilateral meetings and
structures. Whether or not South Africa’s national interests are reflected in these outcomes, depends on negotiated agreements and consensus
reached. In many cases, the outcome represents the lowest common denominator.
Source Of Data Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Outcomes report or submissions on AU structures and process, AU partnerships and implementation of Agenda 2063
Assumptions The relevant partner departments that lead the flagship projects within their mandate submit the information to DIRCO
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annually
Desired Performance More flagship projects implemented or operationalised
Indicator Responsibility Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
95

Indicator Title Number of reports on South Africa’s commitments and efforts towards peace and stability on the continent
Definition
South Africa participates in AU structures and processes charged with the promotion of peace and security on the continent, which include the
AU Peace and Security Council (AU Post-Reconstruction and Development Committee on Sudan), among others. These fora are engaged
with a view to strengthen the African Peace and Security Architecture by supporting the operationalisation of the African Standby Force and
the Continental Early Warning System.
Source Of Data Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Approved programmes of action, outcome reports, South Africa’s submissions to AU processes and communiqués, decisions and
declarations issued by the AU and its various organs (not signed)
Assumptions Commitments and the resultant efforts for South Africa to resolve continental conflicts as derived from outcomes from AU processes and
meetings
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Non-cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annually
Desired Performance Fulfil all commitments to resolve continental conflicts
Indicator Responsibility Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
96

Indicator Title Number of reports on the outcomes of South-South engagements reflecting South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that of the African Agenda
Definition
Participation in meetings and organisations of developing countries, commonly referred to as countries of the South, allows for the development
of common positions that reflect the needs of the developing countries and aim to exert greater influence in pursuing these positions within
multilateral fora. This also relates to minilateral/plurilateral arrangements (e.g. BRICS). There are objectives for South Africa’s engagements
and its participation aims to achieve those objectives.
Source Of Data
Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Branch: Asia and Middle East
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed reports. In instances where there is more than one report provided, confirmation that the reports provided constitutes one report for
all South-South engagements will be added.
Assumptions The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance More outcomes on identified objectives
Indicator Responsibility
Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
97

Indicator Title Number of reports on the outcomes of North-South engagements reflecting South Africa’s participation
and interests, including that of the African Agenda
Definition
Strategic formations of the developed countries, usually referred to as countries of the North, are engaged to garner support for the African
Agenda and the Agenda of the South. These are countries usually considered to have influence in the global arena and also with resources
that can be channelled to the developing world. South Africa has identified what it wants to achieve through each of these engagements and
needs to regularly assess whether it is achieving those objectives.
Source Of Data Regional organisations (TICAD, EU)
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Signed submission/report
Assumptions The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Bi-annually
Desired Performance More negotiated outcomes in line with South African objectives
Indicator Responsibility Regional organisations
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
98

Indicator Title Number of key messages distributed to missions on domestic and global developments
Definition
To have a better understanding and awareness of South Africa's foreign policy and communicate it through professional public diplomacy
services, the department will, in conjunction with the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), facilitate key messages to
be distributed to missions on political, economic and global developments. This will assist the missions to disseminate one message on key
developments.
Source Of Data Public Diplomacy
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Key messages issued by Public Diplomacy as received from GCIS on political, economic and global developments
Assumptions Key messages are available to be distributed
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance More key messages issued
Indicator Responsibility Public Diplomacy
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
99

Indicator Title Number of platforms utilised to inform and promote South Africa’s foreign policy to domestic and
international audiences
Definition
Different platforms are utilised by the principals, i.e. Minister and Deputy Ministers, to engage on domestic and international developments
such as PPPs and opinion pieces
A PPP is an outreach, conducted by the political principal, during which domestic audiences are engaged on foreign policy. Political principals
may be represented by the DG, DDG or any nominated official.
An opinion piece is a written expression of thoughts on a particular political issue.
Source Of Data Branch: Public Diplomacy
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification
PPPs: Signed reports
Opinion pieces: published opinion pieces
Assumptions Not applicable
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance More PPPs and opinion pieces published
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: Public Diplomacy
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
100

Indicator Title Percentage of requests for protocol services rendered to all in- and outgoing state, official and working
visits
Definition
Incoming and outgoing visits for the President, Deputy President and their counterparts in compliance with relevant legislation.
Categories of dignitaries:
Heads of State or Government, spouses of Heads of State or Government, internationally recognised Kings/Queens at the level of a Head of
State, Deputy Heads of State/Government, former Heads of State/Government, Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International Relations, Deputy
Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International Relations, Heads and Deputy Heads of Multilateral and Regional Organisations, as determined by the
policy on incoming international visits and eminent persons, as may be determined by the Director-General of DIRCO.
Categories of visits:
State visits, official visits, working visits, special visits, bi-national and joint commissions, conferences and summits, special envoys and private
visits. Transit visits are excluded.
Source Of Data State Protocol and Consular Services
Method Of Calculation/Assessment
The following formula is used to calculate:
Percentage of requests for protocol services rendered… =
(Numerator (Requests responded to)
*100
(Denominator (Requests received)
Means Of Verification Signed quarterly schedules for confirmed facilitated international visits of principals, including initiation and signed/approved exit reports and/
or submissions
Assumptions Written requests. Delayed notifications, which might allow very little lead time and/or notifications, might only be received during or post a
visit. Sufficient resources.
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Non-cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance All requests received responded to
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
101

Indicator Title Percentage of requests for consular assistance rendered
Definition
To render consular services and protect the interests of all South Africans abroad as contemplated in the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations, 1963. To monitor assistance provided by DIRCO to South Africa citizens abroad as per the Vienna Convention governing consular
relations.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: Consular Services
Method Of Calculation/Assessment
The following formula is used to calculate:
Percentage of requests for consular services rendered =
(Numerator (Requests responded to)
*100
(Denominator (Requests received)
Means Of Verification Signed statistics/report
Assumptions Confirmation that requests are received from South African citizens and all relevant stakeholders have been communicated to
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Non-cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance All requests responded to
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
102

Indicator Title Percentage of documents legalised
Definition Documents for use abroad are legalised and authenticated by the department.
Source Of Data Documents accepted for legalisation are processed in accordance with the guidelines set in the Service Delivery Charter. Legalisation is
guided by Chapter 20 of the Consular Handbook.
Method Of Calculation/Assessment
The following formula is used to calculate:
Percentage of documents legalised =
(Numerator (Requests responded to)
*100
(Denominator (Requests received)
Means Of Verification Signed statistics/reports/registers
Assumptions The authorised signatures for partner departments are available
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Non-cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Respond to all requests received
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
103

Indicator Title Number of reports on payment of South Africa’s contribution to international organisations
Definition
The department is required to transfer payments, which arise from obligations undertaken by South Africa at international, regional and
subregional multilateral levels. The payments, which are made by the department, generally take the form of:
• membership due to organisations such as the UN, AU, SADC and the Commonwealth
• contributions to peacekeeping operations of the UN
• meetings of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa is a member, and in which South Africa has participated
• voluntary pledges that South Africa makes to international organisations for the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical assistance,
etc.
It should be noted that the payment depends on the assessment letters received from the international organisations.
Source Of Data Chief Directorate: Financial Management
Method Of Calculation/Assessment Quantitative
Means Of Verification Proof of payment
Assumptions Sufficient funds available
Disaggregation Of Beneficiaries
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Spatial Transformation
(Where Applicable) Not applicable
Calculation Type Cumulative
Reporting Cycle Quarterly
Desired Performance Higher performance is desirable and all payments made within the period due
Indicator Responsibility Deputy Director-General: Financial and Assets Management
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
104

African Agenda
South Africa’s future is inextricably linked to that of Africa. The continent is therefore the cornerstone of South Africa’s foreign policy. The concept and term, African Agenda, has
been developed to describe the principal motive underpinning South Africa’s foreign policy for the last more than 20 years. This African Agenda rests on five key pillars: contribute
to regional and continental peace, security, stability and sustainable development through the African Union (AU); advance Africa’s socio-economic development through the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development; strengthen effective governance through mechanisms such as the African Peer Review Mechanism; seek cooperation through international
partnerships in support of Africa’s development; and develop regional economic communities as the building blocs for continental economic development and integration.
African values of Ubuntu/Diplomacy of Ubuntu
South Africa is a multifaceted, multicultural and multiracial country that embraces the concept of Ubuntu as a way of defining who we are and how we relate to others. The
philosophy of Ubuntu means “humanity” and is reflected in the idea that we affirm our humanity when we affirm the humanity of others. It has played a major role in forging a
South African national consciousness and in the process of its democratic transformation and nation-building.
South Africa’s unique approach to global issues has found expression in the concept of Ubuntu. This concept informs our particular approach to diplomacy and shape our vision
of a better world for all. This philosophy translates into an approach to international relations that respects all nations, peoples and cultures. It recognises that it is in our National
Interest to promote and support the positive development of others.
South Africa therefore accords central importance to its immediate African neighbourhood and continent; working with countries of the South to address shared challenges of
underdevelopment; promoting global equity and social justice; working with countries of the North to develop a true and effective partnership for a better world; and doing our part
to strengthen the multilateral system, including its transformation, to reflect the diversity of our nations and ensure its centrality in global governance.
Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic framework
that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development and is a concrete manifestation of the Pan-African drive for unity, self-determination, freedom, progress
and collective prosperity pursued under Pan-Africanism and the African Renaissance. The genesis of Agenda 2063 was the realisation by African leaders that there was a need
to refocus and reprioritise Africa’s agenda from the struggle against apartheid and the attainment of political independence for the continent, which had been the focus of the
Organisation of African Unity, the precursor of the AU; and instead to prioritise inclusive social and economic development, continental and regional integration, democratic
governance and peace and security, among other issues, aimed at repositioning Africa to becoming a dominant player in the global arena.
AUPCRD Committee on Sudan
The AU Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development Ministerial Committee on Sudan was established in July 2003 to facilitate post-conflict reconstruction and development
efforts in that country.
Glossary of terminology
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
105

Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)
China’s BRI aims to connect Asia, Europe and Africa along five routes. The infrastructure projects, which are part of the BRI, mostly run through some of China’s poorest and
least developed regions and could provide a stimulus to help cushion the effects of the deepening slowdown of the Chinese economy. China is also hoping that, by improving
connectivity between its underdeveloped southern and western provinces, its richer eastern coast and the countries along its periphery, the BRI will improve China’s internal
economic integration and competitiveness and spur more regionally balanced growth. Moreover, the construction is intended to help make use of China’s enormous industrial
overcapacity and ease the entry of Chinese goods into regional markets.
Bilateral relations
Bilateral relations are mainly conducted through formally accredited missions that spearhead on a daily basis the promotion of the national interests of the sending country. These
relations cover a wide spectrum such as political, economic, science and technology, defence, consular and development cooperation, and tourism, among others. South Africa
conducts its diplomatic relations through under the control of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO).
Bi-national and joint commissions
Bi-national and joint commissions are regularised and formalised meetings undertaken by mutual agreement between South Africa and the participating country. These meetings
take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions.
Bretton Woods Institutions
The International Monetary Fund and International Bank of Reconstruction and Development were created by the Bretton Woods Agreement at the United Nations (UN) Monetary
and Financial Conference in 1944 to manage global economic and financial relations.
Disarmament and non-proliferation
A system of multilateral agreements, conventions and controls in which all states can equally participate and which is aimed at ridding the world of weapons of mass destruction
and limiting the spread and control the use of conventional weapons, including small-arms and light weapons.
Early warning
A concept utilised in conflict prevention referring to diplomatic analysis and reporting by states and regional bodies with the aim of preventing the outbreak of large-scale conflict
through appropriate preventative diplomacy.
Economic diplomacy
Economic diplomacy is the overall diplomatic contribution by DIRCO towards the implementation of South Africa’s foreign policy priorities and national priorities, which are
underpinned in the Economic Diplomacy Strategic Framework (EDSF). This framework is for South African missions abroad, supported by Head Office, to successfully drive the
country’s national interests, thus contributing towards the country’s growth and development plan in the fields of tourism, trade and investment.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
106

First 10-year Implementation Plan (FTYIP)
The FTYIP of Agenda 2063 (201 – 2023) is the first in a series of five 10-year plans over the 50-year horizon of Agenda 2063’s time frame.
The aims of developing the 10-year plans are to:
• identify priority areas, set specific targets and define strategies and policy measures required to implement the FTYIP of Agenda 2063
• bring to fruition the fast-track programmes and initiatives outlined in the Malabo Decisions of the AU to provide the big push and breakthroughs for Africa’s economic and
social transformation
• provide information to all key stakeholders at national, regional and continental levels on the expected results/outcomes for the first 10 years of the plan and assign
responsibilities to all stakeholders in its implementation, monitoring and evaluation
• outline the strategies required to ensure availability of resources and capacities together with citizens’ engagement in the implementation of the FTYIP.
The goals and priority areas of the FTYIP were influenced by four key factors:
• the flagship projects/programmes of Agenda 2063
• near term national and regional economic communities’ (RECs) development priorities
• continental frameworks
• Agenda 2063 Results Framework.
Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR)
The 4IR refers to a series of social, political, cultural and economic upheavals that will unfold over the 21st century. Building on the widespread availability of digital technologies
that were the result of the Third Industrial, or Digital Revolution, the 4IR will be driven largely by the convergence of digital, biological and physical innovations, such as the fifth-
generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks, the Internet of Things, machine learning, Artificial Intelligence, genome editing, augmented reality, robotics and 3-D
printing.
These technologies are rapidly changing the way humans create, exchange and distribute value. The result of all this is societal transformation at a global scale. By affecting the
incentives, rules and norms of economic life, it transforms how we communicate, learn, entertain ourselves and relate to one another and how we understand ourselves as human
beings. Furthermore, the sense that new technologies are being developed and implemented at an increasingly rapid pace has an impact on human identities, communities and
political structures.
Global balance of forces
The global system is still characterised by primary unipolarity and secondary multipolar features. This is reflected, among others, in the emergence of China as a world power
and the rise of Asia, and the quasi-autonomy of regional alliances such as the European Union (EU), Latin American states, BRICS and other such cross-regional partnerships.
It also refers to how a country or grouping protects itself against another nation or group of nations by matching its power against the power of the other side.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
107

Global multilateral system of governance
This refers to a rules-based international system in which priorities in the economic, social welfare, human rights and security areas, aimed at improving the quality of life of all
South African citizens, peoples of Africa and the rest of the developing world, are advanced.
Bearing in mind the centrality of the UN Charter and the principles of international law, South Africa promotes these global development, social, security and human rights issues
through participation in the international debate, notably the UN system, its specialised agencies and other international fora, in order to promote a responsive and accountable
global governance system to better answer the needs of vulnerable and developing countries.
High-Level Meeting
The term, High-Level Meeting, is often employed to denote meetings of ministers and above. The content of these meetings could be the same for state and official visits.
India, Brazil, South Africa (IBSA Fund)
The IBSA Fund for the Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger has undertaken various projects in 21 partner countries. Since its inception in 2006, the fund has disbursed US$36 million
in financial contributions with the aim of facilitating the implementation of 27 projects. The fund has been providing a unique opportunity for strengthening trilateral cooperation
with developing countries through a steady flow of resources and continues to play an important role in sharing their respective developmental experiences.
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)
The JCPOA, more commonly known as the Iran nuclear deal or Iran deal, is an agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme between Iran and the P5+1 (the five permanent
members of the UN Security Council: China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States [US], plus Germany) together with the European Union. On 8 May 2018, former
President Donald Trump announced the US’ withdrawal from the JCPOA.
Major international conferences South Africa places great emphasis on multilateralism and the reform of global governance. To contribute to a better world and the reform of
global governance, South Africa has hosted some major international conferences, the outcomes of which contribute to the advancements of humanity. DIRCO has a special
responsibility to follow up on the outcomes and decisions of all major international conferences hosted since 1990.
Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF)
The MTSF is a high-level strategic document to guide the five-year implementation and monitoring of the National Development Plan 2030. In line with the electoral mandate,
it identifies the priorities to be undertaken during 2019 to 2024 to put the country on a positive trajectory towards the achievement of the 2030 vision. It sets targets for the
implementation of the priorities and interventions for the five-year period and states the outcomes and indicators to be monitored.
The seven priorities derived from the 2019 electoral mandate and State of the Nation Address are:
• Priority 1: Economic Transformation and Job Creation
• Priority 2: Education, Skills and Health
• Priority 3: Consolidating the Social Wage through Reliable and Quality Basic Services
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
108

• Priority 4: Spatial Integration, Human Settlements and Local Government
• Priority 5: Social Cohesion and Safe Communities
• Priority 6: A Capable, Ethical and Developmental State
• Priority 7: A Better Africa and World.
Multilateralism
A global system of interaction between states, which is particularly important to small and medium-sized states as it gives all participating states an equal voice and stake in
programmes, projects and actions to address issues that affect their interests, those of their region and issues of global concern. This multilateral rules-based system is the main
counterbalance to unilateral and collective actions undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states.
Multilateral rules-based system
This system comprises all the UN bodies, agencies, funds, programmes and related organisations in association with the UN, as well as conventions and agreements that provide
for inclusive and equal participation by all states.
Official Visit
An Official Visit is the second-highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and is undertaken at the invitation of the host to the relevant foreign counterpart. It takes
place more frequently than a State Visit and can involve a Head of State or Government, Deputy Head of State/Government or Minister/Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs/
International Relations. Ceremonial and protocol honours accorded are scaled down depending on the rank of the visiting counterpart. The duration of an Official Visit will not
exceed three days (two nights). An extension of an Official Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion of the host. An extension of an Official Visit beyond the set period
without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Pluralistic
A pluralistic society is a diverse one, where the people in it believe all kinds of different things and tolerate each other’s beliefs even when they don’t match their own. Pluralism
is a social philosophy that seeks to allow many different viewpoints to coexist within a larger structure. A pluralist society, system of government or organisation contains many
groups that keep their identities while also participating in the larger group.
Plurilateral
A plurilateral agreement is a multinational legal or trade agreement between countries. In economic jargon, it is an agreement between more than two countries, but not a great
many, which would be a multilateral agreement.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
109

Private Visit
A Private Visit is an unofficial visit undertaken by a foreign dignitary as outlined by the policy on incoming international visits and includes, but not restricted to, private business,
medical treatment or holiday purposes.
Promotion of the multilateral system
Promoting the use and strengthening the multilateral system of collective decision-making between states and countering the damaging effects of unilateral and collective actions
undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states such as South Africa.
Regional economic integration
South Africa’s foreign policy is anchored in domestic priorities with the main aim of consolidating regional integration with particular emphasis on improving the political and
economic integration of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). SADC and the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) are primary vehicles for regional
economic integration. They are important building blocs to achieve the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)-East African Community (EAC)-SADC
Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA) and the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).
SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in two tracks, namely political and security integration and economic integration. Critical to the objectives of regional economic integration
is the realisation of the TFTA, as well as the AfCFTA, both aimed at boosting industrial and infrastructure development and enhancing intra-regional trade.
Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP)
The RISDP is a comprehensive development and implementation framework guiding the regional integration agenda of the SADC over a period of 15 years (2005 – 2020). It
is designed to provide clear strategic direction with respect to SADC programmes, projects and activities in line with the SADC Common Agenda and strategic priorities, as
enshrined in the SADC Treaty of 1992. The original plan was approved by the SADC Summit in 2003. Through concrete priorities, programmes and targets, the RISDP allows
all parties involved to keep track of progress made, and to obtain guidance for prioritisation.
The ultimate objective of the plan is to deepen integration in the region with a view to accelerate poverty eradication and the attainment of other economic and non-economic
development goals.
Priority areas of the RISDP:
• Trade and Economic Liberalisation
• Regional Infrastructure and Services Development for Regional Integration
• Sustainable Food Security
• Social and Human Development
• Cross-cutting Issues, including Gender and Development, HIV and AIDS, Science and Technology, Environment and Sustainable Development, Private Sector, and
Statistics.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
110

Senior Officials’ Meeting
The most common meetings are between senior officials, i.e. below Cabinet level. Meetings of this nature often convene to prepare for high-level meetings, exchange information
and ideas, discuss technical issues, negotiate and draft agreements and communiqués/declarations, assess the implementation of previous agreements and/or decisions, as
well as to clarify positions and develop common positions on issues of mutual interest.
Special Visit
A Special Visit is undertaken by a foreign dignitary at the invitation of the Republic of South Africa, to represent their country or organisation (e.g. the inauguration of a Head of
State, ad-hoc meetings etc.) or attend a specific occasion (e.g. State funeral, etc.).
State Visit
A State Visit is the highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and involves a formal visit by one Head of State to another. It takes place at the invitation of the
President of the Republic of South Africa and the recommendation of the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation. During a State Visit, full ceremonial honours are
accorded to a foreign Head of State. The duration of a State Visit is three days (two nights). An extension of a State Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion of the
President of the Republic of South Africa. Extension of a State Visit beyond the set period without the approval of the President will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Strategic Partnership
A Strategic Partnershipprovides an overarching long-term framework for intercontinental relations aimed at promoting economic cooperation, sustainable development, peace,
security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity for the benefit of its members.
Strengthen relations
This terminology generally refers to diplomatic actions aimed at expanding and deepening the political, trade, social, financial, economic and security relationship and interactions
between South Africa and another state. These actions can take many forms but usually pertain to state visits, official visits, working visits, structured bilateral mechanisms and
the daily activities of diplomatic missions.
Structured bilateral mechanism
A structured bilateral mechanism is a terminology reflecting the numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries. These meetings usually
take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. They usually comprise subcommittees or technical
committees dealing with issues such as global governance, Africa, strengthening trade and investment relations, tourism promotion, science and technology cooperation, etc.
Ministers and senior officials of departments concerned usually co-chair these subcommittees. Structured bilateral mechanisms are co-chaired from the President downwards
to the level of senior officials. These meetings usually meet under various designations such as a bi-national commission, joint commission, partnership forum, policy dialogue
forum, policy forum, etc. The meetings usually alternate between the countries concerned and can take place every six months, annually and in certain cases every two years,
depending on the importance of the issues on the agenda and the availability of the relevant ministers and senior officials. The structured bilateral mechanism is one of the most
important and valuable foreign policy instruments for DIRCO to coordinate South African positions and activities towards a particular country and to advance South Africa’s key
priorities.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
111

Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA)
The TFTA is an initiative between three RECs, namely: COMESA, the EAC and SADC and will be achieved by amalgamating the economies of the three regions with a combined
market of 26 countries, which constitute half of the member states of the AU, a population of 625 million people and a combined gross domestic product of US$833 billion.
The TFTA is anchored on three pillars: market integration, infrastructure development, and industrial development and is a precursor to the vision of realising an economically
integrated continent.
United Nations (UN) Development Repositioning of the UN Development System (UNDS)
In May 2018, the UN General Assembly (UNGA) adopted a landmark consensus resolution on the repositioning of the UNDS, with the aim of better supporting member states
towards the realisation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop¬ment). South Africa actively participated in the negotiations at the UN in New York to ensure that the UN
Development Agenda continues to remain compatible with the development agenda of South Africa and the South, as well as AU aspirations.
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA)
The North American Free Trade Agreement was renegotiated and replaced by the USMCA. The latter is expected to reshape North American economic relations and is in line
with former President Trump’s aim to give American manufacturers an advantage over their competitors and gain increased market access for US farmers into the Canadian dairy
market. On 20 June 2019, the Senate of Mexico ratified the agreement. The revised Agreement was signed in December 2019 following additional consultations and has been
ratified by all three countries. The USMCA entered into force on 1 July 2020.
Visit by Eminent Persons
The Director-General (DG) of DIRCO determines the guests who would be accorded a status of Eminent Persons for a particular visit. The Planning Committee of the specific
visit, in consultation with the DG, decides on the courtesies to be accorded.
Visit by Special Envoy
A Special Envoy is a Representative appointed by a Head of State/Government or Head of Multilateral and Regional Organisation to convey an official message to the President
or Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa.  This visit is taken at the initiative of the visiting country. Courtesies to be accorded are informed by the level of the Special
Envoy.
Working Visit
A Working Visit is undertaken at the initiative of the foreign counterpart/dignitary without a formal invitation from a South African counterpart. It requires prior approval from a
South African counterpart. A visiting foreign counterpart/dignitary is not accorded full ceremonial honours. The duration of a Working Visit will not exceed two days (one night).
An extension of a Working Visit beyond the set period without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Glossary of terminology (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
112

List of Abbreviations and Acronyms
a ACP African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States
AfCFTA African Continental Free Trade Agreement
AGOA Africa Growth and Opportunity Act
AUC African Union Commission
AU African Union
AUPSC AU Peace and Security Council
b BRICS Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
c COMESA Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CAHOSCC Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate
Change
d DDG Deputy Director-General
DG Director-General
DIRCO Department of International Relations and Cooperation
DTRD Diplomatic Training, Research and Development
e EAC East Africa Community
EPA Economic Partnership Agreement
EU European Union
g G77 Group of 77 (plus China)
i IBSA India, Brazil and South Africa Dialogue Forum
IMF International Monetary Fund
IORA Indian Ocean Rim Association
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
113

m MTSF Medium Term Strategic Framework
n NDP National Development Plan
NSDS National Skills Development Strategy
o OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
p PTA Preferential Trade Agreement
r RISDP Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan
s SACU Southern African Customs Union
SADC Southern African Development Community
SDGs Sustainable Development Goals
t TFTA Tripartite Free Trade Area
TIDCA Trade, Investment and Development Cooperation Agreement
TNPW Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons
u UN United Nations
UNDP United Nations Development Programme
UNSC United Nations Security Council
w WEF World Economic Forum
WIPO World Intellectual Property Organisation
WTO World Trade Organisation
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms (continued)
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
114

ANNEXURE “A”
Amendment to the 2020 – 2025 Strategic Plan to include the outcome for
Programme 5: International Transfers:
Outcome Outcome indicator Baseline Five-year target
Strengthen multilateralism through
membership fees and contributions
South Africa membership fees paid in
full on time
Not available 100% of membership fees paid in full and on time
Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
115

Annual Performance Plan 2023 – 2024 Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
116