seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue28_revised2.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_issue28_revised2.pdf
title: ubuntu_issue28_revised2.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

Tsitsikamma National Park, Western Cape

No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright is
reserved. Views in Ubuntu  are not necessarily those of DIRCO or
those of the South African Government. They can accept no liability
of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with the contents
of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 28
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
You Strike a Woman, You Strike a Rock /
Wathint’ Abafazi, Wathint’ Imbokodo
"Our quest to build a better world will remain unfulfilled
as long as people are still discriminated against on the
basis of race, gender, sex, ethnic or social origin, colour,
sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience,
belief, culture or language.
"We have a responsibility to make sure that every girl
child receives an education and that every woman has
an opportunity to work, study, start a business and have
choice and control over her life and body.
"We need to end the violence perpetrated against the
most vulnerable, most often women and children.
"We have witnessed that women in conflict situations
are particularly vulnerable, including women journalists."
Dr Naledi Pandor, Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor
Delien Burger – burgerd@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0948
Photo Editor
Yolande Snyman – snymany@dirco.gov.za
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Yandisa Monakali and Katlholo Maifadi, Department of International Relations and Cooperation;
Government Communication and Information System; South African Tourism; UN Photo; Adobe Stock; The Melrose Gallery;
The Don Mattera Legacy Foundation Facebook page; Thebe Magugu Twitter page; SA Culture Observatory Twitter page;
South African Embassy in Paris, France, Facebook page; The Silo Hotel Facebook page; Anant Singh Twitter page; Nelson
Mandela University Office of Research Development Facebook page; and Redhill School Facebook page
Acknowledgements
Dr GNM Pandor, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation; Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of Tourism; Dr Blade
Nzimande, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation; Alvin Botes, Deputy Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation; Prof. Anil Sooklal, Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and Middle East, Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO); Charlotte Lobe, High Commissioner of South Africa to Singapore; Dr Bobby J Moroe, Consul General
of South Africa in Lagos, the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Letlhogonolo Mashilo, DIRCO; Beth le Roux, Associate Professor,
Publishing, University of Pretoria; Astrid RN Haas, Fellow, Infrastructure Institute, School of Cities, University of Toronto;
Jakkie Cilliers, Head of African Futures and Innovation, Institute for Security Studies (ISS); Ronak Gopaldas, ISS Consultant,
Director at Signal Risk and CAMM Fellow at the Gordon Institute of Business Science; Chris Saunders, Emeritus Professor,
University of Cape Town (UCT); Boniface Oyugi, Health Policy and Health Economics Researcher and Honorary Researcher
at the Centre for Health Services Studies, University of Kent; Charles Helm, Research Associate, African Centre for Coastal
Palaeoscience, Nelson Mandela University (NMU) and Jan Carlo De Vynck, Director and Research Fellow, African Centre
for Coastal Palaeoscience, NMU; Adeyemi Oladapo Aremu, Associate Professor, North-West University and Nox Makunga,
Associate Professor: Medicinal Plant Biotechnology, Stellenbosch University; United Nations Environment Programme;
Stefan Grab, Professor of Historical Climate and Weather, University of the Witwatersrand (Wits); Dominique Somda,
Junior Research Fellow, Institute for Humanities in Africa, UCT; Miengah Abrahams, Lecturer, UCT; Awino Okech, Associate
Professor in Political Sociology, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London; James Chikomborero Paradza,
Doctor of Music Candidate, University of Pretoria (UP); Phillippa Yaa de Villiers, Poet and Lecturer in Creative Writing,
Wits; The Melrose Gallery; Brent Lindeque, www.goodthingsguy.com; Benita Odogwu-Atkinson, Senior Lecturer in Fashion
Design, University for the Creative Arts; and Gwen Ansell, Associate of the Gordon Institute for Business Science, UP
Advertisers
African Union, South African Mint, World Food Programme, BMW, Ubuntu Radio and Vodacom Business
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation, e-mail address and delivery
address in the body to maebaf@dirco.gov.za.
Back-issue enquiries
maebaf@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Distribution
Fhulu Maeba – maebaf@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1613
SOUTH AFRICA:
MEMBER OF THE UNITED NATIONS
HUMAN RIGHTS COUNCIL
2023 – 2025
“Together, building back better
through human rights”

Lifestyle
98
82
contents
Diplomacy
In every issue
South Africa-Botswana
Fashion show
Fifth edition of SCULPTX
LIFESTYLEFeatures
UBUNTU magazine – issue 28
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
6 Letter from the Minister
8 Publisher’s note
100 Beyoncé has helped usher in a renaissance for African artists
102 Epitaph for a baobab: Remembering South African poet and activist
Don Mattera
104 Fifth edition of SCULPTX presents over 200 works and 80 artists
106 Why the V&A's new Africa Fashion exhibition is important – and long
 overdue
108 Spiritual traditions fuel South African jazz artist Tumi Mogorosi's
new album
110 South African resorts and hotels among the best in the world
12 Diplomatic Fun Fair 2022 held at the Union Buildings
14 Forging a world where generations will prosper and thrive
18 Comrade President José Eduardo dos Santos: An anchor of
solidarity
20 Walking together, the tiger, dragon, elephant and lion: Asia's
rise and its relevance to Africa's development
24 Celebrating women in diplomacy
28 Diplomacy, information technology and partnerships
32  The world's divided future
34  Bio-economy vital for Africa's socio-economic development and
sustainability
38 The Indo-Pacific:  An emerging paradigm for peace, cooperation,
sustainable development and mutual prosperity
44 The Nelson Mandela "Be the Legacy" Internship Programme
48  Blinken's African charm offensive
52  Mikhail Gorbachev: Southern Africans have a special reason to
thank him
56   Liberation Heritage: Lillian Masediba Ngoyi
58 Celebrating the legacy of Solomon Linda
60  A South African university publisher makes it to 100. A rare and
important event
62 Tourism sector is making significant strides towards recovery
66  Africa's Free Trade Area offers promise for cities
 The Woman King is more than an action movie – it shines a light on
the women warriors of Benin
68  How African countries coordinated the response to COVID-19:
Lessons for public health
70 Rock stars: How a group of scientists in South Africa rescued a rare
 chunk of human history
74 Africa is a treasure trove of medicinal plants: Here are seven that are
 popular
78   After landmark UN declaration, hope for cleaner air
80 Climate change: Colonial diaries in South Africa are helping
scientists reconstruct weather patterns of the past to protect against
future events
82  The Woman King is more than an action movie – it shines a light on
the women warriors of Benin
84 Footprints take science a step closer to understanding southern
 Africa's dinosaurs
86 Flipper traces reveal the presence of ancient seals on South Africa's
 coast
88 Four lessons from Serena Williams for sportswomen in Africa
90 Flying the flag
104
12
Diplomatic Fun Fair
2022 held at the
Union Buildings
54
Dr Esther Mahlangu turns 87 years

Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
6 7
T
he world has been through
a time of tremendous
change and turmoil in
the international system,
having emerged from the
COVID-19 pandemic,
which was an unprecedented setback for
most of our countries and economies.
We have been confronted by the conflict
in Ukraine, the impact of climate change,
environmental degradation, the energy
crisis, food insecurity, high inflation and
an exponential increase in the prices
of basic food. For Africa, the combined
impact of all these developments is
especially severe, given the relatively low
levels of development and socio-economic
challenges, as well as pockets of instability
throughout the continent.
This is a critical juncture in
international relations in which the globe’s
interdependence and interconnectedness
have starkly exposed our mutual
vulnerability, especially in times of crisis.
South Africa has resisted becoming
embroiled in the politics of confrontation
and aggression that has been advocated
by the powerful countries. Together with
several developing countries, we have
asserted our own independent and non-
aligned approach based on the peaceful
resolution of the war in Ukraine through
dialogue and negotiation.
Multilateralism remains a focal point
of our foreign policy, and South Africa’s
engagements are premised on the need
to promote the priorities reflected in the
National Development Plan and advance
our National Interest and those of Africa
and the global South. Strengthening
multilateralism is the only means of
addressing our global challenges, which
are monumental and the building of trust
and real cooperation will enable us to
succeed in achieving our objectives.
According to the World Economic Forum,
the top global risks by severity in the next
decade will be climate action failure,
extreme weather, biodiversity loss, erosion
of social cohesion, infectious diseases,
natural resource crises and debt crises.
If we are to effectively address these
pressing challenges, we will need to find a
way to work together constructively for the
good of our planet.
We continue to push for the reform of the
United Nations (UN) and the UN Security
Council as the premier body responsible
for the maintenance of international
peace and security. This body needs to be
democratised so that it is reflective of the
current world order. We are also committed
to the reinvigoration of the Non-Aligned
Movement and will continue to work within
BRICS to forge greater collaboration
between Brazil, Russia, India, China
and South Africa. As the only African
country within the G20, we will continue
to champion the African Agenda and the
interests of the global South within that
forum, as well as within the G77.
South Africa has devoted considerable
effort to promoting equal access for all
African countries to COVID-19 vaccines
and making the continent and other
developing countries better prepared to
manage future pandemics.
South Africa and India joined forces to
combat “vaccine nationalism” and ensure
that vaccines are readily available in the
developing world.
Our joint call at the World Trade
Organisation (WTO) for the temporary
suspension of intellectual property rights
so that COVID-19 vaccines and other new
technologies are accessible for developing
countries, was vitally important. South
Africa and India will also be collaborating
on genomic sequencing to promote further
research on COVID-19 and its mutations.
The leadership of India and South
Africa on the Agreement on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights
waiver proposal was an important lesson
for the South in securing global support for
the development of manufacturing capacity
in Africa and other developing regions.
Although the compromise that was
reached at the WTO fell short of what
was in the original waiver request by
South Africa and India, we view this as a
big step towards achieving global justice
and international solidarity. While the
negotiations to include other IP waivers
beyond vaccines will continue, countries
can now produce COVID-19 vaccines and
drugs on a larger scale, at lower prices.
South Africa has been driving regional
integration processes, as we need
cooperation within the continent to address
low levels of industrialisation, weak
infrastructure and underdevelopment.
Africa’s development requires integrating
its markets, expanding productive capacity
across the continent and developing
regional value chains that integrate African
economies.
 It is a major accomplishment that trading
under the African Continental Free Trade
Area (AfCFTA) commenced on 1 January
2021. The AfCFTA is a “game changer” and
a catalyst for boosting intra-Africa trade.
The AfCFTA aims to build a single
integrated African market of over 1.2 billion
people with a combined gross domestic
product of approximately US$3.3 trillion.
It also aims to boost intra-Africa trade that
currently stands at approximately 16% and
to increase Africa’s share of world trade,
which is estimated to be at only 3%. The
AfCFTA will also reduce tariff and non-
tariff trade barriers, which have served as
a hindrance to intra-African trade. South
Africa is working with partners on the
continent to capitalise on the opportunities
created by the AfCFTA to address the
challenges of high youth unemployment,
poverty and inequality.
South Africa has been working
towards strengthening Africa’s regional
and continental peace and security
architecture within the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) and
the African Union (AU). South Africa is
advocating for adequate resourcing for
AU-led UN-mandated peace operations
and promotes higher levels of gender
mainstreaming and responsiveness
across the AU and UN architecture. As
Chair of the SADC Organ on Politics,
Defence and Security, South Africa
continued to work towards bringing peace
and stability to the region.
As SADC Facilitator to the Kingdom
of Lesotho, we continued our mediation
efforts in that country and sought to
contribute towards bringing stability to
the Democratic Republic of Congo and
Mozambique.
The BRICS ministers of foreign affairs
and international relations held the
annual meeting on the margins of the
77th Session of the UN General Assembly
on 22 September 2022, chaired by South
Africa as the incoming BRICS Chair for
2023.
I briefed the ministers on the
preparations for South Africa's Chairship
of BRICS. My counterparts extended
their full support to South Africa for its
Chairship and the hosting of the XV
BRICS summit.
The ministers also look forward to the
Standalone Meeting of BRICS Ministers
of Foreign Affairs and International
Relations in South Africa in 2023.
Dr GNM Pandor, Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation
The BRICS ministers of foreign affairs and international
relations held the annual meeting on the margins of
the 77th Session of the UN General Assembly on
22 September 2022, chaired by South Africa as the
incoming BRICS Chair for 2023.
Letter from the Minister

Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
8 9
Publisher’s Note | Let’s talk foreign policy...
W
hy is the Brenthurst
Foundation
obsessed with
Ukraine – what
about Palestine,
Yemen, Libya and
Western Sahara?
Like some in the Western world, Greg Mills
and Ray Hartley have prioritised the conflict in
Ukraine above every other conflict and gross
violation of human rights occurring elsewhere
on the globe.
One wonders whether the lives that are
being lost in conflicts such as in Palestine or
Yemen don’t matter?
When the South African Government
released the
National Interest Framework
document recently, the reaction of the
Brenthurst Foundation could only be
described as an emotional venting exercise
that did not even begin to address the issues in
the document. I was very tempted to respond
but held back. It can only be deeply etched in
the consciousness of one born into privilege
not to grasp the urgency and imperative of
addressing inequality for a country ranked the
most unequal globally, at number one out of
164 countries (according to a report released
by the World Bank earlier this year).
The World Bank further lifts “race” as “a key
driver of high inequality in South Africa”.
How poverty eradication, job creation
and addressing inequality in democratic
South Africa can be dismissed as minor in
the framing of our National Interest to guide
our endeavours abroad as South African
diplomats, is mind-boggling.
It is the foundation’s latest attack on
our country’s foreign policy and diplomats
that provoked me, while at the same time
resurrecting my irritation with their National
Interest response. I’ll deal with both issues.
Greg Mills and Ray Hartley took exception
to the country statement at the opening of
the United Nations (UN) General Assembly,
asserting that the global community should
“treat all conflicts across the globe with equal
indignation, no matter what the colour or
creed of the people affected”.
In South Africa, we live in a democracy and
pride ourselves on our diversity of political
views, which are aired freely, encouraging
vociferous debate. But attacks like those of
Mills and Hartley on our foreign policy cannot
go unanswered.
Our non-aligned position on the Russia-
Ukraine conflict mirrors that of the global
South and developing countries (most states
that comprise the Non-Aligned Movement,
[NAM]).
South Africa pursues an independent
foreign policy, as do members of the NAM,
and as a collective, we refuse to be bullied
into taking sides in battles of geopolitical
contestation, as it is not in our National
Interest to do so.
The problem with the perspective elucidated
by Mills and Hartley is that their approach is in
itself steeped in double standards.
When it comes to a Western state, they
accept Ukraine’s right to self-defence, but
this same right is not recognised when it
comes to the Palestinians vis-à-vis the Israeli
occupation in line with Article 51 of the UN
Charter.
UN General Assembly Resolution
3236/1974 also gives the Palestinians the
right to restore their rights by all legitimate
means.
It is for this reason that South Africa
relentlessly advocates for a rules-based
system predicated on international law and
adherence to the Charter of the UN.
There cannot be one standard for people
of Northern nations, whereby their right to
resist attack or occupation is defended, but
when it comes to the oppressed in Palestine
or elsewhere, their rights are ignored.
The UN Human Rights Chief, Michelle
Bachelet, recently expressed alarm at the
high number of Palestinians, including
children, killed and injured in the occupied
Palestinian territories this year.
 Bachelet said the widespread use of
live ammunition by Israeli forces in law-
enforcement operations across the West
Bank, including East Jerusalem, had led to an
alarming increase in Palestinian fatalities.
Bachelet said in many incidents, Israeli
forces used lethal force in a manner that
appeared to be in violation of international
human rights law. Rights group Euro-Med
Monitor has made similar observations.
Mills and Hartley expose their ignorance of
documented history when they ridicule South
Africa’s support for Palestine and Western
Sahara, saying that “South Africa has no
role in Western Sahara, and no voice on
Palestine”.
Also, have they forgotten that countries
who supported the anti-apartheid struggle did
not do so because they had a role to play, but
because it was the right thing to do?
We remain committed to being on the right
side of history, and to defend the rights of
those fighting for liberation against colonialism
and oppression.
When Mills and Hartley criticise our
solidarity with the people of Cuba, they turn
a blind eye to the egregious injustice of the
United States (US) economic embargo
imposed against that island nation, which has
now gone on for over six decades.
They show their limited understanding of
the situation when arguing that it is the Cuban
state that impedes the right to development of
its people, when in fact it is the US embargo
that has impeded the right to development of
the Cuban people since 1961.
It is the embargo which has prevented
Cuba from having normal trading relations
with the world and has prevented it from
acquiring necessities, denying Cubans the
right to essential medicines and consumer
goods.
As for South Africa and the Southern
African Development Community’s call for the
lifting of sanctions against Zimbabwe, here’s
a point to ponder on.
Have the sanctions been effective in terms
of improving good governance in Zimbabwe?
What the sanctions have done is to worsen
the economic situation in that country,
deterring foreign investment and hastening
economic collapse.
It is the southern African region that has
to bear the consequences of this (most
particularly South Africa).
When Zimbabweans have no jobs and
cannot feed their families, it is mainly to South
Africa that they come to find the means to
survive.
Ultimately, economic sanctions on
Zimbabwe are indirectly a threat to our
National Interest. Perhaps the height of
hypocrisy by the Western world and even
the Brenthurst Foundation is its failure to
expose the suffering of the people of Yemen,
and the collusion of the West in the bombing
campaign.
In Yemen, more than 19 200 civilians have
been killed or maimed by air strikes, including
2 300 children since March 2015.
For seven years, civilians in Yemen have
suffered from recurrent war crimes and crimes
against humanity.
The conflict has displaced at least four
million and created the world’s largest
humanitarian crisis with 23.4 million Yemenis
in need of humanitarian assistance.
Where is the outrage of the Brenthurst
Foundation at such crimes against humanity?
The situation in Yemen has been described
by the UN as the world’s worst humanitarian
disaster, with at least 15.6 million people living
in extreme poverty.
A UN Development Programme report
projects that the number of those killed as a
result of Yemen’s war could reach 2.3 million
by 2030, and that 70% of those killed would
be children under the age of five.
The report also projects that extreme
poverty could disappear in Yemen within
a generation if the conflict were to end
immediately.
Yes, the people of Ukraine are suffering
immensely and that’s why we continue to call
for a cessation of hostilities and negotiations.
South Africa has always opposed violations
of the sovereignty and territorial integrity
of member states, in keeping with the UN
Charter.
It should be equally the case, for the people
of Yemen and Palestine.
It is time to recognise that the lives of brown
people are no less valuable than others, and
it is time to call out the big powers for their
violations of international law and human
rights, as well as their double standards.
Let me return to the National Interest
debate. In their critique of the
National
Interest Framework document, Hartley and
Mills waxed lyrical about democracy.
How many Western countries fail on key
aspects of it? The fight against racism must
be central to a democracy test. We forget
that our late icon and first President of a
democratic South Africa, Nelson Mandela,
was incarcerated for 27 years for challenging
the racism that was at the heart of the
apartheid regime. Hector Pieterson was killed
for fighting for the right to an education free
of racism.
Data on COVID-19 deaths from a rich
Western country shows that race was critical
to the chances of surviving it, with people of
African descent comprising a huge proportion
of those who lost their lives.
One minute, the extrajudicial killing
of a journalist is condemned with all the
sanctimonious piousness in the world; the
next minute, the national interests of these
very same countries trump human rights.
Most recently, a former senior diplomat of a
country shared how he had been involved in
the planning of coups in other countries.
Overall, it’s not clear whether the two
authors are venting on behalf of the Brenthurst
Foundation, with Greg Mills as its director and
Ray Hartley its research director.
One hopes that the views of Mills are not
influenced by his past association with the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)
regarding what is unfolding in Ukraine.
Greg Mills provided services to NATO
in Afghanistan for four months in 2006.
On the request of General David Richards
(Commander of NATO forces), Mills helped
establish and run a civilian think-tank, the
Prism Group.
This, however, shouldn’t oblige or bind
South Africa to adopt the interests of NATO
as its National Interest.
Democratic South Africa must, among
other factors, consider the constitutional
imperatives on socio-economic rights in
the Bill of Rights. The indivisibility and
interdependence of socio-economic, civil and
political rights as anchors of our democracy,
are what inform and inspire our diplomats in
their work.
Clayson Monyela
Deputy Director-General: Public
Diplomacy
In South Africa, we live
in a democracy and
pride ourselves on our
diversity of political views,
which are aired freely,
encouraging vociferous
debate.

Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden, Cape Town

Diplomatic
Fun Fair
2022
held at the
Union Buildings
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  12
DIPLOMATIC FUN FAIR HELD AT THE UNION BUILDINGS
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  13
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) hosted the
Diplomatic Fun Fair on 22 October 2022, at the Union Buildings’ southern lawns in
Pretoria. The event was held under the 2022 African Union theme: “Strengthening
Resilience in Nutrition and Food Security on the African Continent”.
T
he event brought together foreign
diplomatic missions accredited to South
Africa to showcase and promote their
respective countries through arts, music
and cuisine.
The Diplomatic Fun Fair was held for
the first time in 2006 and has since become an important
occasion on the diplomatic calendar in Pretoria, serving
as a platform to promote and celebrate the unity and
diversity of the world.
The line-up included exhibitions and cultural performances.
Speaking at the event, Deputy Director-General of Public
Diplomacy and DIRCO spokesperson, Clayson Monyela,
said the event was a cultural diplomacy platform where
South Africans were given an opportunity to take a trip
around the world in one day.
"The Diplomatic Fun Fair is the ideal opportunity to learn
more about the work of DIRCO, and the different diplomatic
missions that are accredited to South Africa, in a  fun and
exciting way," he said.
The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation,
Dr Naledi Pandor, said South Africa was the country with the highest
number of embassies on the African continent.
"We are thrilled that so many embassies always keenly participate
in the Diplomatic Fun Fair. The event is an expression of people-to-
people exchange, cultural exchange, the sharing of diversity and the
building of unity across borders and boundaries."
The Dean of the Diplomatic Corps and Ambassador of the State
of Eritrea, Amb Salih Omar Abdu, said the initiative was highly
appreciated as it provided diplomatic missions the opportunity to
showcase their countries through various displays, cultural events
and cuisine.
"The hosting of this fun fair is another example of the level of
engagement and collaboration between DIRCO and the diplomatic
community in South Africa. We look forward to hosting another fun
fair in the coming year," he said.

| Diplomacy
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
15
Building a better world requires peace and stability. South Africa continues to believe
that conflict resolution must not come through fuelling conflicts, but through investing in
efforts aimed at political dialogue.
FORGING A WORLD WHERE FUTURE GENERATIONS WILL PROSPER AND THRIVE FORGING A WORLD WHERE FUTURE GENERATIONS WILL PROSPER AND THRIVE
Forging a world where generations
will prosper and thrive
T
he 77th Session of the United
Nations General Assembly
(UNGA) met in September
2022 in New York under the
theme: “A Watershed Moment:
Unlocking Transformative
Solutions to Interlocking Challenges”.
It is a time when the UN family is facing its
greatest test. Member states have to work
with the UN to develop effective responses to
By Dr GNM Pandor
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
because addressing poverty and
underdevelopment will be the beginning of the
real inflection point in human history.
The Charter of the UN, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and its human
rights protocols all commit us to protecting all
people without distinction of any kind.
We must acknowledge that we face
these crises today because we have not
always upheld these foundational principles
consistently and fairly.
The COVID-19 pandemic has provided us
with a roadmap on what should be done and
not done to address global challenges.
We should use the lessons learnt effectively.
There were some noble initiatives such as
the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator
(ACT-A) that was co-chaired by President Cyril
Ramaphosa, the African Union Champion for
the COVID response, and the Prime Minister
of Norway.
This initiative laid the basis for a fairer
distribution of vaccines, therapeutics and
diagnostics.
Global security
Global solidarity is also required to meet
other pressing challenges such as energy
and food insecurity, climate change and the
devastation caused by conflicts, including the
existential threat of nuclear weapons.
Instead of working collectively to address
these challenges, we have grown further
apart as geopolitical tensions and mistrust
permeate our relations.
We should, however, move forward
in solidarity, united in efforts to address
our common global challenges to ensure
sustainable peace and development.
Global health architecture
One of the tasks we must successfully
implement to ensure developing countries are
not left behind when treatments are available is
to create and support research and innovation
capacity in Africa for vaccine production, invest
in strengthened public health systems and
produce thousands more professional health
workers. This requires sustainable investment
in higher education, research institutions and
in global research cooperation.
The mobilisation of resources and
capabilities to strengthen the pandemic
response and preparedness of all nations
must be substantially increased. It will be a
tragic indictment on all of us as leaders if future
pandemics found the poorest as unprepared
as many were for COVID-19.
We need to strengthen the global health
architecture to ensure that we are better able
to meet the challenges of new pandemics and
other infectious diseases of concern. South
Africa is proud to be part of this solution through
the establishment of the first mRNA global
technology transfer hubs that will contribute to
the security of supply of life-saving medication
for African and other developing countries.
Global energy shortages
South Africa, like many other developing
countries, faces huge developmental
challenges, including in our energy sector.
We need to collectively address global energy
shortages, including by deploying innovative
solutions that are cheaper, cleaner and more
accessible.
Working with international partners, we are
developing our Just Energy Transition Plan to
significantly reduce harmful emissions in South
Africa. Work on an expanded green economy
is also gaining significant momentum.
Education
We commend the Secretary-General for
focussing attention on transforming education.
Education remains one of the most important
drivers to end poverty and inequality, and
we will work towards increasing access to
education that is affordable.
South Africa has no-fee schools at primary
and secondary school levels for the most
vulnerable learners. There is also a state
bursary for poor students who qualify for
tertiary education.
These measures have over the years served
to increase the enrolment of leaners who were
previously unable to access education.
In the field of research and innovation, we
need more partnerships such as the Square
Kilometre Array science infrastructure project
hosted in South Africa and Australia, which is
an international partnership that is one of the
largest scientific endeavours in history.
Partnerships of this nature must be
encouraged to leverage scientific breakthroughs
for development purposes.
Trade
The multilateral trading system must be
strengthened so that we genuinely create
a conducive environment for fair trade that
also provides opportunities for developing
economies.
If actionable steps such as these are not
taken, developing countries will remain subject
to an imbalanced global financial and trading
system.
South Africa’s commitment to
multilateralism
Using this moment of renewal, South Africa
reiterates its commitment to multilateralism as
the only means to build a better world.
The UN itself must be transformed so that
it serves its role cognisant of current global
dynamics. It is unacceptable that 77 years
after its establishment, five nations wield
disproportionate decision-making power in
the UN system as a whole. Transformation
of the UN must include more representative,
transparent and accountable organs of global
governance.
For the UN to be effective, the General
Assembly must be revitalised and the Security
Council must be reformed. We also cannot
have a credible organisation if persistent
transgressors of the charter are not held
accountable.
Environment
We must act immediately to protect the
environment and the world we live in, for
ourselves and for future generations. While
Africa is the least responsible for the climate
crisis, it finds itself at the epicentre of its worst
impacts.
The South African Cabinet has approved
wide-reaching policies to ensure that we can
meet our climate change targets. We have
established a Presidential Climate Finance
Task Team to lead and coordinate negotiations
with the International Partner Group to give
effect to the Just Energy Transition Partnership
(JETP). The JETP seeks to address South
Africa’s investment needs in infrastructure to
facilitate our coal phase-down in a manner that
ensures that no one is left behind.
Peace and stability
Building a better world requires peace and
stability. South Africa continues to believe
that conflict resolution must not come through
fuelling conflicts, but through investing in efforts
aimed at political dialogue. We should aspire
to peace as a global public good. There have
been no winners of the wars of the past seven
decades. Instead, they engendered strife,
distrust among nations, divisions, a perpetual
misallocation of resources as well as increased
poverty and underdevelopment.
While we work to address contemporary
conflicts, we should not ignore longstanding
ones such as Palestine that has been on the
UN agenda throughout the seven decades of
the existence of this organisation. We cannot
ignore the words of the former Israeli negotiator
at the Oslo talks, Daniel Levy, who addressed
the UN Security Council recently and referred
to: “The increasingly weighty, body of scholarly,
legal and public opinion that has designated
Israel to be perpetrating apartheid in the
territories under its control.”
Israel must be held accountable for its
destructive actions that have significantly
impaired the possibility of a two-state solution.
Similarly, we cannot ignore the decades-long
struggle for self-determination of the people
of Western Sahara. We must treat all conflicts
across the globe with equal indignation, no
matter what the colour or creed of the people
affected.
South Africa calls for an end to the embargo
against Cuba, which continues to impede the
right to development of her people. In the same
vein, we call for an end to unilateral coercive
measures against Zimbabwe, which have
compounded the problems experienced by the
people of Zimbabwe and have a detrimental
effect on the broader southern African region.
Addressing discrimination
Our quest to build a better world will
remain unfulfilled as long as people are still
discriminated against on the basis of race,
the cuurrent challenges. As the theme of the
UNGA indicated, these are diverse, immense,
yet interconnected challenges and no country
can respond alone.
Some have referred to this moment as a key
turning point in history.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the war in
Eastern Europe shape our attitudes today;
however, for South Africa, the real inflection
point will be the world attending fully to the
needs of the marginalised and forgotten.
Our greatest global challenges are
poverty, inequality, joblessness and
feeling excluded. Acting on the
Common Agenda Vision
2021 of the UN Secretary-
General should
become the major
objective of
this time
The multilateral trading system must be strengthened so
that we genuinely create a conducive environment for
fair trade that also provides opportunities for
developing economies.
DIPLOMACY |

Diplomacy |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
16
16 17
gender, sex, ethnic or social origin, colour,
sexual orientation, age, disability, religion,
conscience, belief, culture or language.
We have a responsibility to make sure that
every girl child receives an education and
that every woman has an opportunity to work,
study, start a business and have choice and
control over her life and body.
We need to end the violence perpetrated
against the most vulnerable, most often
women and children.
We have witnessed that women in conflict
situations are particularly vulnerable, including
women journalists.
The murder of Shireen Abu Akleh and other
journalists is a stark reminder of the dangers
that women in conflict situations face.
We must do all we can to protect them and
hold those accountable for harming them.
We must also strengthen the capacity and
draw on the voices of the youth on the African
continent. In this regard, we need to harness
the demographic dividend by maximising our
investment in quality education to address
intergenerational poverty, together with
inclusive economies.
Africa is laying a firm foundation for a new
era of trade, commerce and productivity
Africa is home to more than 1.3 billion people. It
is fast emerging from centuries of colonialism,
occupation and exploitation, from wilful neglect
and underdevelopment.
Through the African Continental Free Trade
Area, the countries of Africa are laying a firm
foundation for a new era of trade, commerce
and productivity.
African countries are establishing the
conditions for the seamless flow of goods
and services between African markets, for the
growth of industry and for the construction of
roads, bridges, railway lines, ports and power
stations that will support growth.
As we continue our efforts to end war,
conflict and insurgency in several parts of our
continent and to prevent the unconstitutional
seizure of power, we will continue to seek
greater alignment between the agendas of the
UN and our body, the African Union.
Forge a world where future generations will
prosper and thrive
To overcome all these acutely global
challenges, we must agree to a common path
out of an increasingly polarised world.
A rules-based international system,
predicated on international law and strict
adherence to the provisions of the UN Charter,
is essential. Such a system must safeguard
the interests of all and not only the powerful
countries.
We acknowledge the efforts of the Secretary-
General through his vision contained in the
report on “Our Common Agenda”, to provide
us with options to be able to put aside our
differences, build trust and forge a world where
future generations will prosper and thrive.
FORGING A WORLD WHERE FUTURE GENERATIONS WILL PROSPER AND THRIVE
A rules-based international system, predicated on international law and strict
adherence to the provisions of the UN Charter, is essential. Such a system must
safeguard the interests of all and not only the powerful countries.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
18
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  19
Comrade President Josè Eduardo dos Santos died on 8 July 2022, having served
as President of Angola from 1979 to 2017. President Cyril Ramaphosa led the South
African Government’s delegation to Dos Santos' funeral together with Ambassador
Oupa Monareng.
COMRADE PRESIDENT JOSÉ EDUARDO DOS SANTOS: AN ANCHOR OF SOLIDARITY
Comrade President José Eduardo dos Santos:
An anchor of solidarity
By Alvin Botes
Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
COMRADE PRESIDENT JOSÉ EDUARDO DOS SANTOS: AN ANCHOR OF SOLIDARITY
C
omrade President Josè
Eduardo dos Santos died
on 8 July 2022, having
served as President of
Angola from 1979 to
2017.
President Cyril Ramaphosa led the South
African Government’s delegation to Dos
Santos' funeral together with Ambassador
Oupa Monareng.
Comrade Dos Santos became leader of
the
Movimento Popular de Libertação de
Angola (MPLA) and President of Angola
on 20 September 1979, at the age of 37,
following the death of Agostinho Neto,
“O pai de naçaõ” (Father of the nation).
President of the African National
Congress (ANC), Oliver Tambo, dedicated
the inaugural publication of
Sechaba  to the
history and struggle of the MPLA.
Tambo stated that “the recent invasion
of Angola by South African troops is the
most dangerous crisis faced by Africa since
the US intervention in the Congo and later
invasion of Guinea by fascist Portugal. Then
as now, the forces of imperialism intervened
to try to turn back the moment for Africa's
liberation and the achievement of genuine
independence of its people ... we are part
and parcel of this struggle for democracy
and peace”, confirming the ANC and MPLA’s
struggle to be intertwined and interwoven.
The 1974 military coup in Lisbon set a
train of events into motion on the southern
African subcontinent. The Alvor Agreement
in 1975 granted Angola independence
from Portugal, and when the Portuguese
withdrew, the white
cordon sanitaire
crumbled.
Apartheid South Africa feared political
and security threats that might result from
decolonisation in the region. South Africa’s
détente politics toward Africa at this time was
pursued through the Angolan intervention to
establish “buffer zones” between Namibia
and Angola.
The leadership of MPLA enabled
uMkhonto we Sizwe to establish an array of
camps, including Nova Katengue, Gabela,
Caxito, Quibaxe, Pango, Fazenda and
Funda transit camps, such as Benguela and
the Engineering Camp.
It was Comrade President Dos Santos
who made a personal appeal to Fidel Castro
for Cuban support in January 1988.
Inspired by talks
Support was granted to the People's Armed
Forces of Liberation of Angola and included
the elite Cuban 50th Division, which
succeeded in November 1975 in turning
back a South African invasion force on the
eve of independence.
This political intervention by Cuba
formed the bedrock of the victory at Cuito
Cuanavale.
Dos Santos presided over the
liberation struggle waged in Angola,
which made the Namibia agreement
in December 1988 possible.
A telex from Tambo to Dos Santos expressed
optimism, indicating Tambo was inspired by
the talks, signalling hope that “the current
negotiations be crowned with success for
Angola, Namibia, Internationalist Cuba
and all of us as well for you in particular,
Comrade President.
A luta Continua,
A victoria e Certa ”.
With the implementation of the New
York Peace Accords and United Nations
Resolution 435 and after all the foreign
troops had withdrawn from Angola, the
conventional war between MPLA and
National Union for the Total Independence
of Angola degenerated into a civil war until
2002. The signing of the peace and national
reconciliation agreements brought to a
conclusion 27 years of war.
The fifth Angolan presidential and
parliamentary elections took place on
24 August 2022, and President Ramaphosa,
having had regard for the African Union and
Southern African Development Community
(SADC) observer missions, together with
the SADC Parliamentary Forum and the
Electoral Commissions Forum of SADC
Countries, sent along his warmest and most
sincere congratulations to President João
Lourenço and the people of Angola on his
re-election.
Comrade President Josè Eduardo dos
Santos, the people of Angola today bear
the fruits of freedom, and the country is a
hallmark of democracy, which has cemented
your legacy, as an anchor of solidarity.
With the implementation of the New York Peace Accords and United Nations
Resolution 435 and after all the foreign troops had withdrawn from Angola, the
conventional war between MPLA and UNITA degenerated into a civil war
until 2002. The signing of the peace and national reconciliation
agreements brought to a conclusion 27 years of war.
Comrade Jose Eduardo dos Santos became leader of the Movimento Popular de
Libertação de Angola (MPLA) and President of Angola on 20 September 1979, at the
age of 37, following the death of Agostinho Neto, “O pai de naçaõ”
(Father of the nation).

| Diplomacy
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
21
Over the past two decades, the African Union has adopted several policies and
programmes that position the continent on a positive development trajectory. This has
prompted many analysts to refer to Africa as the last frontier of development.
WALKING TOGETHER, THE TIGER, DRAGON, ELEPHANT AND LION
Walking together, the tiger, dragon,
elephant and lion: Asia's rise and its
relevance to Africa's development
WALKING TOGETHER, THE TIGER, DRAGON, ELEPHANT AND LION
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS
Department of International Relations and CooperationA
sian economies have
occupied a major space
in the global economy
during the last 50
years. This resulted in
interesting  processes that
led to developmental models, which drove
macro-economic policy frameworks that
became catalysts for Asia’s remarkable, and
ongoing, economic transformation.
Several East and Southeast Asian
economies have transitioned from low-income
states to middle-income states. This prompted
the World Bank to coin the term “East Asian
Miracle” to describe their achievements in
overcoming many of the developmental
challenges developing countries continue to
grapple with.
Since the turn of the 21st century, the
rapid transformation has continued and has
been reflected in the rise of China as well as
the growing prominence of the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) as
a regional bloc. The rapid growth of these
economies and the factors that propelled
economic transformation in Asia may provide
valuable insights for the transformation of
South Africa and Africa’s economic growth and
development.
climate change: the 1992 United Nations (UN)
Framework Convention on Climate Change,
the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and the 2015 Paris
Agreement. Already, the Asia Development
Bank and other multilateral development
banks (MDBs) are helping countries to achieve
their nationally determined contributions under
the Paris Agreement, through financing climate
mitigation and adaptation and supporting
capacity-building.
Focussing on the Republic of Korea (RoK),
India and China, there were a series of
seminal events that created the environment
for important policy choices that unleashed
economic growth and development.

Republic of Korea
On 27 July 1953, the RoK emerged from a
devastating civil war as the poorest country in
the world with almost no scope for economic
revival. The country had very few natural
resources and was completely bankrupt,
depending on foreign aid for more than 90%
of its budget. The southern regions of the
Korean peninsula were historically designated
for agriculture. Most industries were located in
the northern regions with less than 25% of the
available land in the RoK considered suitable
for agriculture. The Korean Office of Planning
was established as far back as 1948 and this
office duly prepared a number of five-year
plans that were never implemented. It was not
until 1961 that the Korean Government put
economic development unambiguously at the
top of its priorities. The most important policy
intervention was to focus on the enhancement
of human resources and productivity through
education.
The Confucian work ethic that Korea has
entrenched as a world view stresses the value
of education, productivity, commitment to duty
and ethics. It provided an avenue for upward
mobility based on increased productivity. This
enabled the other policy interventions like
appointing people on merit to ensure effective
management and stability in developmental
processes.
It also enabled the implementation of a high-
growth, outward-looking development strategy,
rapid transformation of the economic structure
from domination by the agricultural sector into
manufacturing, while modernising agriculture
and ensuring rural equity to avoid a big income
gap developing between city dwellers and the
rural population.
Importantly, the Korean Government
entrenched their commitment to economic
development, by fostering a perception that
policies, adopted in the nation’s interest, will be
implemented.
Working in the RoK’s favour was the
prevailing international environment.
Maintaining a strong commercial relationship
with Japan despite the deep wounds inflicted
by Japanese imperialism up to World War
II and maintaining a strategic relationship
with the United States during the Cold War
contributed to the success story that Korea
has become.
The RoK is the first former aid recipient
to become a member of the Development
Assistance Committee of the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and Development
in 2009. During the UN Conference on Trade
and Development’s 68th Session of the Trade
and Development Board from 21 June to 2 July
2021, the RoK was reclassified as a developed
economy. This was the first time the UN agency
had upgraded a member state’s development
status since its establishment in 1964.
India
India’s policy approach, especially in the terrain
of economic policy after independence, was
influenced by the colonial experience. India
saw the need to allow the homegrown industry
to flourish and develop strategic sectors along
the lines of socialist style planning. This resulted
in India being focussed on protectionist policy
positions, import substitution, industrialisation,
state intervention at the micro level in all
businesses, especially in labour and financial
markets, a large public sector, business
regulation and central planning resembling
socialist style central planning.
By 1966, the Indian Government was forced
to seek monetary support from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank to cope
with rapid inflation and an increasing budget
deficit.
By 1991, India again faced a balance of
payment problem and by then was facing a
serious economic crisis, close to default, with
foreign exchange reserves having dwindled
to the point that India could barely finance two
weeks' worth of imports. The Government,
under the bold leadership of Prime Minister PV
Narasimha Rao, implemented major economic
policy shifts by abolishing the so-called
“License raj”.
This, together with allowing up to 51% of
foreign equity participation, incentivised foreign
investment, which also facilitated technology
transfer and modernisation of industry.
Allowance was also made for the privatisation
of many public-sector companies, reducing
subsidies, liberalising interest rates, allowing
the Rupee to float freely and the removal of
import controls in favour of the promotion of
exports. Successive governments post-1991
continued to implement reforms in various
sectors and these progressive steps have
positioned India as an economic success story
that continues to yield dividends.
In more recent times, India, under the visionary
leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
has seen the further liberalisation of the Indian
economy, which has led to accelerated growth
with India now being the fastest-growing major
economy.
In the IMF July 2022 report, India is the fifth-
largest global economy having overtaken the
United Kingdom with a gross domestic product
(GDP) of US$3.5 trillion.
The reforms led to the achievement of
recognisable increases in international
competitiveness in a number of sectors, including
auto components, telecommunications, computer
software, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology,
research and development and professional
services provided by scientists, technologists,
doctors, nurses, teachers, management
professionals and similar professions.
Foreign investment in the country (including
foreign direct investment, portfolio investment,
and investment raised on international capital
markets) increased from US$132 million in
1991/92 to US$83.57 billion in 2021/22,
according to the Press Information Bureau of
the  Government of India – a 20-fold  increase
over the last 20 years. Poverty reduced from
According to the Brookings Institution, in the 40 years
between 1978 and 2018, China’s economy managed
to grow at an annual rate of 9.44%. As a result, in real
terms, the Chinese economy in 2018 was 37
times as large as it was in 1978.
DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  20 Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  21
The forces driving Asia’s rapid growth are
market-oriented reform, globalisation, new
technologies and investment in education that
have successfully moved hundreds of millions
of people out of poverty. Asia’s success
in building human capital has been a key
contributor to rapid growth and transformation.
From 1971 to 2018, the region’s electricity
generation (including Australia, Japan and
New Zealand) increased 16.5 times, compared
with a fivefold increase globally. Developing
Asia now operates two-thirds of global high-
speed rail networks, and access to improved
water supply services reached over 90% of the
population by 2017 compared with less than
30% in the 1960s in many of these countries.
Progress in telecommunications and ICT
infrastructure enabled and positioned Asia
to meet 21st century demands in areas such
as e-commerce, including mobile payments,
which increased opportunities for greater
financial inclusion, as well as e-public services,
including better access to health and education.
Asia’s remarkable ability to adapt rapidly
to changing environments is also reflected in
the active role played in endorsing climate-
and environment-related initiatives. Nearly
all countries in the region are party to the
three major conventions and agreements on
 | DIPLOMACY

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
22
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  23
36% of the population in 1993/94 to 10.2%
in 2019 and the decline in rural areas was
much higher than in urban areas, according to
a World Bank policy research working paper
published in April 2022.
The People’s Republic of China
With regard to China, the Third Plenary
Session of the 11th Central Committee of
the Chinese Communist Party, under the
leadership of Deng Xiaoping, adopted a
new economic development strategy on
18 December 1978, ushering in the “Three
Reforms”: reform of state-owned enterprises,
reform of the financial system and reform
of administrative organisations, thereby
abandoning the ideological strictures of the
past and embracing policies founded on
practicality, which unleashed the creative
and entrepreneurial potential of the Chinese
people.
China’s GDP per capita in 1979, when the
reform started, was US$184; GDP per capita
in 2022 is estimated to be around US$16 300.
According to the Brookings Institution, in
the 40 years between 1978 and 2018, China’s
economy managed to grow at an annual rate
of 9.44%.
As a result, in real terms, the Chinese
economy in 2018 was 37 times as large as it
was in 1978. According to figures published in
the
South China Morning Post of 18 January
2022, China was the world’s second-largest
economy in 2021, with a GDP of approximately
US$18 trillion and according to the World
Bank, the value of China’s stock market ranked
second globally in 2020.
Foreign investment in the country (including
foreign direct investment, portfolio investment,
and investment raised on international capital
markets) was negligible in 1978. It increased
to an estimated US$1,35 trillion by the end of
2016 – according to a study by the Australian
National University.
Over the past 40 years, the number of people
in China with incomes below US$1.90 per day
– the International Poverty Line as defined by
the World Bank to track global extreme poverty
– has fallen by close to 800 million. With this,
China has contributed close to three-quarters
of the global reduction in the number of people
living in extreme poverty – according to a joint
study, “Four Decades of Poverty Reduction
in China: Drivers, Insights for the World, and
the Way Ahead”, which was undertaken by
China’s Ministry of Finance, the Development
Research Centre of the State Council and
the World Bank, with the China Centre for
International Knowledge on Development.
Asia’s experience has taught us that it is
possible to realise our goals. Although there
is no panacea for getting economies growing,
there are certain factors that tend to lead to
growth, development, human security and
quality of life.
These include pragmatism, long-term
thinking and planning with consistent
implementation, investments in human capital
and innovation, strengthening the necessary
institutions that helped improve government
effectiveness – professional civil service that
is directed at a capable state – and ensuring
a conducive environment for private-sector
development.
Africa
The rapid rise of Asia over the past five decades
demonstrates that Asia provides several
economic and developmental modules, which
Africa could emulate in its socio-economic
rejuvenation. Over the past two decades, the
African Union has adopted several policies
and programmes that position the continent
on a positive development trajectory. This has
prompted many analysts to refer to Africa as
the last frontier of development.
Agenda 2063 is Africa’s development
blueprint to achieve inclusive and sustainable
socio-economic development over a 50-year
period. The continent aims to achieve this
objective through the realisation of five 10-year
implementation plans.
The 2021 second continental-level report
consolidated progress reports and analyses
progress made on the implementation of
Agenda 2063 against 2021 targets.
During 2021, growth was highest in North
Africa at 11.7% mainly due to increased oil
exports and prospects of stability in Libya.
Southern Africa’s estimated growth for 2021/22
was 4.2%, as opposed to a pre-pandemic
estimate of 6.0%. There were, however, strong
signs of recovery in Botswana at 12.5%,
Zimbabwe at 6.3%, and South Africa at 4.9%.
African countries rank low on several other
factors that influence investment, such as the
overall cost of doing business affected by the
quality of roads and ports, the reliability of
electricity infrastructure, the degree of political
stability and the level of excessive bureaucracy
and corruption.
Sub-Saharan Africa’s population is growing
at 2.7% a year, and GDP needs to grow
at least as fast. The good news is that the
region’s economy is expected to grow by 3.8%
in 2022 and projected to grow at 4.0% in 2023.
Demographics will fuel the continent’s rise in
a world of shrinking working-age populations.
Over the next three decades, the global
population is set to grow by about two billion
people, with half of that increase in sub-
Saharan – today, there are almost two Africans
for every European.
A capable, developmental state is often
highlighted as the basis of a successful state.
For Africa to realise its full potential, the
following are key:
• specific knowledge and acquired skills
that can be translated into overall
management skills and capabilities
• adherence to good governance and
accountability
• the efficient and effective utilisation of
resources – human and financial
• strengthening democratic institutions
and the capability of the State to fight
corruption.
The Africa Continental Free Trade Area
(AfCFTA) holds major economic promise.
The AfCFTA is the largest free trade area in
the world, both by area and by the number of
countries.
The AfCFTA comprises 55 countries with a
population of 1.3 billion and combined GDP of
about US$3.4 trillion.
Technological advances, including in
artificial intelligence and automation, i.e. “4IR”,
has the potential to unlock a new future for
Africa’s estimated 700 million young people,
but it demands of governments to urgently
step up investment in human resources and
other infrastructure to take advantage of
opportunities presented (as opposed to be
disadvantaged) by these developments.
However, the Russia-Ukraine conflict has
triggered a set of processes that will hinder
projected growth for years to come ‒ the
average inflation is now projected to accelerate
to 13.5% across the continent. The rising costs
of food and energy due to the conflict will have
implications on Africa’s development trajectory.
Conclusion
The Korean, Indian and Chinese development
models took shape over time. The Korean
model was largely free market-oriented with
a state-centred approach to managing the
economy in the early years.
The “developmental state” became
the framework through which to explain
the Korean model. State-supported (and
directed) enterprises called
chaebols drove
industrialisation and growth, and have proven
to be both successful and resilient.
In the Indian model, socialist style planning
was adopted almost immediately after
independence.
This led to serious market failures within 20
years of liberation and resulted in incremental
reform that moved India to a globally
competitive and growing free-market economy.
The economic benefits have impacted on
the country’s increasing global footprint as a
leading major economy of the 21st century.
China presents a unique case, where the
post-1978 era resulted in China adopting
a state-led market-driven economy that
maintained socialist principles, which were the
basis of China’s 1949 revolution.
China’s approach to balancing market
forces with state-controlled systems has
proven successful and continues to fuel the
rise of China, which today is the second-
largest global economy.
It will be useful and could perhaps add value
to engage in a detailed comparative study of
South Africa’s National Development Plan, with
the policies and programmes that guided the
economic and social development of the RoK,
India and China, and to determine whether
some of those policies and programmes
could be useful to South Africa’s growth and
development.
Over the next three decades, the global population is set to grow by about two billion
people, with half of that increase in sub-Saharan – today, there are almost two Africans
for every European.
WALKING TOGETHER, THE TIGER, DRAGON, ELEPHANT AND LION
The Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) holds
major economic promise. The AfCFTA is the largest free
trade area in the world, both by area and
by the number of countries.
DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  22 Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  23

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
24
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  25
Celebrating women in diplomacy
By Charlotte Lobe
High Commissioner of South Africa to Singapore
CELEBRATING WOMEN IN DIPLOMACY
I
n August every year, South Africa
celebrates the iconic march in
1956 when 20 000 women from all
backgrounds marched to the Union
Buildings in Pretoria to protest against
legislation aimed at tightening the
apartheid government's control over the
movement of black women in urban areas.
The Women’s March is one of the most
heralded historic events in the struggle for
freedom and women’s rights in South Africa.
As a result, 9 August has been declared
National Women’s Day in recognition of the
political activism by women in the liberation
struggle. The march was a turning point in the
role of women in the struggle for freedom and
society at large.
Since then, great strides have been made
in improving the status of women and creating
a conducive environment for them to thrive
in. However, women have not advanced as
rapidly as government would have wished.
This is compounded by the reality that the
field of international relations is traditionally
dominated by men.
As a traditional male domain, existing
power structures within the diplomatic
infrastructure reinforce blatant discriminatory
practices, making it difficult for women to
enter diplomacy, particularly at the highest
echelons. According to a British politician and
diplomat, Sir Harold George Nicholson, who
served in the Diplomatic Corps between 1901
and 1929: “Women are prone to qualities of
zeal, sympathy and intuition which, unless
kept under the firmest control, are dangerous
qualities in international affairs.”
This opinion implies that women should
continue to be subsidiary to international
politics and diplomacy. Signs of change
appeared in the 1930s when 13 countries,
which included Nicaragua and Turkey,
appointed women diplomats. A few decades
later in 1996, Madeleine Albright declared:
“Today, women are engaged in every facet
of global affairs, from policymaking to deal-
making, from arms control to trade, from the
courtroom of the War Crimes Tribunal to the
far-flung operations of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees.”
As a woman diplomat, I know that women
are prolific negotiators; they are good
communicators, strategic thinkers and good
in public relations. There can never be an
excuse to continue excluding women from
this sphere. The small number of women in
diplomatic positions globally reflects the same
challenges faced by women in the political,
civil, private or judicial sectors.
The main challenge for women in diplomacy
is often associated with making “tough
choices between family life and their careers”.
Like many career women, female diplomats
face similar challenges in balancing family
and work. For women diplomats, however,
the obstacles they face are often greater,
given the nature of their work.
South Africa has made significant progress
in narrowing the gender gap in decision-
making structures, including strides made in
increasing the number of women in its envoys
abroad. We have gradually moved from only
three women heads of mission (HoM) that
was equivalent to 1% of the overall number
of HoM before the dawn of democracy to 43%
women as ambassadors, high commissioners
and consuls general. We are not yet at 50%,
but we celebrate this achievement because
our efforts of mainstreaming gender are
yielding positive results.
Despite our progressive gender equality
normative framework in South Africa, women
diplomats face a layer of challenges to survive
and rise to the top.
On the one hand, married women must bear
the burden of the traditional expectation of
being responsible for nurturing their families,
while on the other hand, those who are single
must break conservative presumptions about
a woman’s limits.
Either way, women are confined to gender
stereotypical roles defined by narrow cultural
and religious traditions.
CELEBRATING WOMEN IN DIPLOMACY
The Women’s March is one of the most heralded historic events in the struggle for
freedom and women’s rights in South Africa. As a result, 9 August has been declared
National Women’s Day in recognition of the political activism by women in the liberation
struggle. The march was a turning point in the role of women in the struggle for freedom
and society at large.
As the tide of democracy, equality and justice
sweeps the globe, women are becoming a
growing force to be reckoned with. Globally,
we are seeing a new voice of activism
emerging, which is speaking out to defend
freedom and advance civil liberties and
human rights.
The notion of women in diplomacy and
political leadership is not a new phenomenon,
particularly in Africa. As African female
diplomats, we stand on the shoulders
of giants. We stand on the shoulders of
phenomenal women who created streams in
the desert.
There are African women from the pre-
Colonial era who played major roles in
diplomacy and in nation-building. The
following are just a few examples and the
reason why we celebrate the achievements
of women before us in addition to the women
of 1956:
• In Angola, we celebrate Queen Ann
Nzinga who, in the 17th century, formed
alliances with other kingdoms to fend
off the Portuguese. She declared the
lands she ruled over “free country” and
promised freedom to all slaves who
reached her land. She was not one
to ignore responsibility. She oversaw
mighty armies that strategically kept her
lands free throughout her four-decade
rule.
• The Egyptian Queen, Hatshepsut, is
renowned for expanding foreign trade
and improving diplomatic relations.
She also initiated the development of
construction programmes and a naval
fleet.
• Queen Amina Sukhera is a Hausa
Muslim Warrior Queen of the Zazzau,
now city of Zaria, Kaduna State in
Nigeria, who fought heroic battles using
her military skills to expand the Zazzau
territory. Amina is also credited with the
introduction of the cultivation of kola
nuts in her region. This went a long way
in developing farming and agriculture in
her region.
• Ghana’s Ashanti Empire gave us Yaa
Asantewaa, the brave Queen Mother
of Ejisu. Nana was a leader and
Commander-in-Chief of the Fifth and
final Anglo-Ashanti War of 1900 – 1901.
No woman in history is known to have
accomplished what she had achieved
as the leader of what is now known
as the “Yaa Asantewaa War” between
the Asante and the British during which
she became known as the Jean D ’Arc
of Africa. She inspired the fight against
colonial invaders by declaring: “Is it true
that the bravery of the Ashanti is no
more? I cannot believe it. It cannot be! I
must say this, if you the men of Ashanti
will not go forward, then we will. We the
women will, I shall call upon my fellow
women. We will fight the white men.
We will fight till the last of us falls in the
battlefields.”
• Nehanda Chware Nyakasikana is the
Zimbabwean warrior who joined her
compatriots in fending off the English
invasion of Zimbabwe prior to the 1890s.
She declared, as she faced death by
hanging, that, “my bones will rise again”,
a prophecy evidenced by the mass
exodus of the population who voluntarily
left the country for the east and returned
on the attainment of independence in
1979 following decades of Chimurenga
(war of liberation).
• Manthatisi, the warrior queen of
Batlokwa, came to power as the regent
for her son, Sekonyela, following the
death of her husband, Kgosi Mokotjo.
She reigned in the 1820s, during the
time of King Shaka. As a warrior, she
commanded troops of over 40 000
warriors during the Difaqane wars.
Queen Manthatisi was one of the
best known, and most feared, women
military and political leaders of the
early 19th century. Her troops seized
the crops and cattle of the people they
attacked, leaving a trail of destruction
and devastation. Queen Manthatisi was
strong in times of war and in peace. She
used her diplomatic skills to negotiate
land for her people when she lost the
war.
The lives of these women remind me of the
words of Maya Angelou: “You may encounter
many defeats, but you must not be defeated.
In fact, it may be necessary to encounter the
defeats, so you can know who you are, what
you can rise from, how you can still come out
of it.”
South Africa has made significant progress in narrowing the gender gap in
decision-making structures, including strides made in increasing the number
of women in its envoys abroad. We are not yet at 50%, but we celebrate
this achievement because our efforts of mainstreaming gender
are yielding positive results.

The United Nations, New York, United States of America

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
28
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  29
By Dr Bobby J Moroe
Consul General of South Africa in Lagos, the Federal Republic of Nigeria
Diplomacy, information
technology and partnerships
I
write this piece from my apartment in
Lagos ‒ trying to think of means to make a
small contribution on how “unorthodox” or
“unconventional” diplomacy can be used
by diplomats to advance their countries’
foreign policy objectives.
I am at pains to encourage diplomats to
evolve – move with the times – in a quest
to contribute to building a capable cadre of
diplomats who possess the ability to build
an innovative diplomatic environment in their
respective spaces.
 An innovative diplomatic environment is
one in which you find efficient and catalytic
diplomats who are talented. It is an environment
where you find a pool of new ideas, sharp
enough to contribute to responding to the
challenges facing modern diplomacy.
In the publication, Civil Service World, Alex
Starritt writes that in order to succeed, a modern
civil servant should be tech savvy, confident,
an internationalist, have common touch, be
capable of storytelling and networking and
have an appetite for risk and optimism.
 Although Starritt’s selection of traits may be
said to be more relevant to the private sector,
they are also linked to what diplomats ought
to embrace in their modern-day diplomatic
careers.
The success of government is measured
through performance, and people who conduct
government work must perform, enabling
government to meet its obligations. However,
governments should also create an enabling
environment in which employees can adapt
and embrace new ways of doing their work.
These traits fit well with the attributes required
to ensure that government delivers on its
mandate. “Government can only be effective
if the people in government are fully equipped
with requisite skills, thoroughly motivated and
capable of implementing its mandate.” Since
governments are not in the business of making
profits, their investments lie in building efficient
and innovative human capital.
 Modern diplomats must be creative, agile
and catalytic to be responsive to the challenges
of modern-day diplomacy. A diplomat’s ability
to foster sound bilateral and multilateral
cooperation with other nations is drawn from
good grounding on the fundamentals of
diplomacy
Similarly, the extent to which a modern
diplomat can contribute in responding to
DIPLOMACY, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PARTNERSHIPS
modern-day challenges in diplomacy will
largely depend on the conviction of their
courage to take a step forward and “disrupt”
traditional diplomatic practice. This is just what
we might need to create a capable state.
 A modern-day diplomat can learn lessons
from the disruptions caused by the Fourth
Industrial Revolution (4IR) and understand how
this has changed the present-day world of life
and work alike. Similarly, “unconventional” or
“unorthodox” diplomatic practice can open up
a whole new world of creativity for the modern-
day diplomat; “new diplomacy” in international
relations in which citizens play a greater role.
Under old diplomacy, global policymaking
was more strictly the purview of governments.
In essence, secrecy was the hallmark of old
diplomacy, but the evolution of technology
has led to a gradual and forceful shift in which
nation-states are left with no choice but to
adapt.
 Drawing a parallel link between “disruptive
diplomacy” and the 4IR, one must attempt to
respond to this critical question: how has the
4IR changed the world?
The advent of the 4IR has created an
inextricable link between humans and
technology and enabled the two to co-exist and
cooperate to provide solutions to the challenges
we face. This is the type of synergy that must
co-exist between “disruptive diplomacy” and
the 4IR. Here, I am trying to make a case for
the creation of new methods of doing things in
diplomacy, making use of technology, among
others. These new ways will be characterised
by discomfort, resistance and confusion before
they can be embraced.
Just recall how we all reacted to various
phases of technological advancement
until such time that we became receptive
to innovations of different types in the
technological space we fully enjoy today.
 Now, how can modern diplomats leverage
the use of an advanced technological system
that has so much changed the world to find
solutions to problems facing their craft?
 One Saturday in October 2022, I started
off my morning by attending an innovative
programme, the MultiChoice Talent Factory
(MTF), hosted by MultiChoice Nigeria in Lagos.
 In diplomacy, talent management has
become more critical than before – innovation
is a by-product of talent. Therefore, talent is
necessary to innovate. Over the years, the
diplomatic practice has evolved from “old to
new diplomacy”, and so did the challenges
facing it.
In this piece, I am using the MTF project
as a case study of an innovative programme
that seeks to embrace the use of technology to
promote social cohesion through visual arts. I
also argue that, unless diplomats adapt to such
innovative models, interrupting the diplomatic
scene will be a utopia for many years to come.
 The MTF is an education programme that
develops emerging TV and film talent in Africa,
through an accredited 12-month immersion
programme, including both theory and hands-
on experience in cinematography, editing,
audio production and storytelling.
 It is the first academy of its kind, spanning
three regions and 13 countries across Africa.
Sixty deserving young and talented candidates
who want to work – and innovate – in film and
television production get the chance to hone
their skills alongside industry greats.
 This year-long funded programme is offered
through accredited regional MTF academies
based in Kenya (for East Africa), Nigeria (for
West Africa) and Zambia (for southern Africa)
in partnership with respected local academic
institutions.
 For many of these young creative minds,
this is not only a great opportunity in their
careers but the beginning of a chapter that will
change their lives forever.
 As an unorthodox diplomat based in Nigeria,
I believe in the power of this programme to
transform lives, give hope, create partnerships,
shape perceptions and drive a positive
narrative about South Africa and Nigeria
through visual arts.
I believe that the South African Mission in
Nigeria should use this existing platform to
leverage various projects envisaged within the
context of its bilateral relations with Nigeria.
The MTF, therefore, presents a great
opportunity for collaboration between diplomats,
the private sector and social activists of both
countries to get together and share ideas
about how technology can be used to create
our own stories the best way we know.
Diplomats must embrace technological advancement and use it in such a way that they
can advance the National Interest of their respective countries. They must also change
the way they think, and how they respond to the challenges facing their profession.
DIPLOMACY, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PARTNERSHIPS
According to Lovisa Williams: "Social media or digital
diplomacy does not just provide governments with the
ability to be more successful in providing information,
services and opportunities for collaboration with the
public, but it begins to build new relationships and
communications channels between governments.  It is
the creation of a truly global diplomatic community."

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
30
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  31
DIPLOMACY , INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PARTNERSHIPSDIPLOMACY, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PARTNERSHIPS
With strong partnerships, the MTF can multiply
the number of qualified visual artists from both
countries. This is the new way of conducting
diplomacy.
 This partnership will be the beginning of
illuminating the untold stories of success,
and resilience between the people of both
countries, and how similar their aspirations are
in the face of adversity.  Shaping the narrative
will give us an edge, not only to shine the
spotlight, but to demonstrate our love for each
other as a people of the continent.
 South Africa and Nigeria both have beautiful
stories to share. This is our time to break
barriers and interrupt the falsified narrative. In
our unorthodox and unconventional approach,
we must be intentional in what we do – be
brave enough to cultivate new ideas. Let fear
not deters us from finding new paths.
 The fusion of diplomacy and technology
has become a social craft that requires
mastery of social technologies and a “knack
for relationship-building”.
Diplomats can no longer do it alone without
strategic partnerships.
 Through partnerships, diplomats can
change conversations among people from all
walks of life. With the MTF, information and
stories can be shared through collaboration
– writing scripts about our own stories – the
people of South Africa and Nigeria. Good
untold stories await us.
 Understandably, some of the challenges
facing diplomats today include possible
resistance by “some governments to embrace
changes that technology has brought about”,
thus creating scepticism among them about
the use of technology in their work.
At times, diplomats resist the temptation of
expressing their views out of fear that their
views are not sanctioned by their governments.
Therefore, social media policies have been
developed by some governments to guide
diplomats on how they can manage the use of
these platforms.
Essentially, changes that come with
technology are considered disruptive and
uncomfortable.
Thus, they require circumspect. It is a matter
of creating a fine balance between innovative
diplomacy using technology, and the diplomats’
ability to preserve and protect the integrity of
their governments.
 Lovisa Williams, who serves on the
Leadership Team of the Digital Diplomacy
Coalition in Washington, contends that: “One
of the greatest challenges we all face as we
evolve into more social organisations, is how
do we prepare to become more social? Social
and government haven’t usually co-existed
well in a formal sense nor are they normally
considered to be easy partners.
“We may intellectually understand the
changes these social technologies herald.
We may be able to master the tools to make
us successful. But real success comes from
embracing the ideas of how to be social. How
do we have an official conversation? How do
we provide opportunities for collaboration?
How do we build trust with the public? How can
we be more transparent in our dealings with
the public?”
 All these will require diplomats to “embrace
new ways of thinking, flexible processes,
creation of an innovative environment, and
extensive training”. While “some formal
approaches to diplomatic practice are still
important, they must be supplemented by new
innovations that are capable of responding to
present-day realities”.
For example – the use of diplomatic notes,
otherwise known as “Notes Verbale” is still
important in transmitting information between
any two governments. However, the method of
transmission is slowly, if not rapidly, changing
the world over. This was evident during
the heightened period of COVID-19. Many
diplomats found themselves transmitting Notes
Verbale through social media platforms such
as WhatsApp and Telegram.
Furthermore, during that period, diplomats
used the same medium to create group chats
for the swift transmission of messages and
feedback. They even convened their meetings
not only virtually via Teams or Zoom, among
other platforms, but through WhatsApp video
calls. This is “disruptive diplomacy” powered
by the 4IR.
 According to Lovisa Williams: “Social media
or digital diplomacy does not just provide
governments with the ability to be more
successful in providing information, services
and opportunities for collaboration with the
public, but it begins to build new relationships
and communications channels between
governments.  It is the creation of a truly global
diplomatic community."
Diplomats must embrace technological
advancement and use it in such a way that
they can advance the National Interest of their
respective countries. They must also change
the way they think, and how they respond to
the challenges facing their profession.
The traditional overreliance on textbook
diplomacy will forever haunt humanity in
a world immersed with an abundance of
solutions, readily available at our disposal at
either a click of a button or just by way of a
decent conversation with a social partner.
South Africa and Nigeria both have beautiful stories to share. This is our time to break
barriers and interrupt the falsified narrative. In our unorthodox and unconventional
approach, we must be intentional in what we do – be brave enough to cultivate new
ideas. Let fear not deters us from finding new paths.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
32
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  33
THE WORLD'S DIVIDED FUTURE
Jakkie Cilliers
Head of African Futures and Innovation, Institute for Security Studies
T
he world has entered
uncharted waters as changes
forecast over the next decade
could have more impact than
the collapse of the Berlin Wall
in 1989.
Just think of the past 15 years. COVID-19
struck as the world was recovering from the
2008/09 financial crisis.
When the pandemic started easing, Russia
invaded Ukraine and upended energy security
in Europe and food security in Africa. Africa
now faces a hunger and fertiliser emergency
on top of a debt crisis.
The result is widespread instability and a
general decline in democracy, including a rash
of coups in West and Central Africa. Africa
isn’t worse off than other regions, though.
Western Europe and the United States (US)
are engaged in a proxy war with Russia, their
former Cold War adversary.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
(NATO) recently added China to its perceived
threat environment, and China and the US are
at odds over Taiwan.
But Africa is rapidly emerging as a battlefield
between China, the US and the European
Union (EU) that could make the bipolar era of
competition between East and West look tame
by comparison. All of this is happening while
the impact of climate change accelerates year
on year.
To explore the impact of the different worlds
that could emerge from these upheavals, the
African Futures and Innovation Programme at
the Institute for Security Studies is undertaking
a wide-ranging assessment of alternative
futures.
Two dimensions frame the possible futures:
the extent of international cooperation/
fracturing and the pursuit of more or less
sustainability.
THE WORLD'S DIVIDED FUTURE
The results are four broad scenarios: a
Sustainable World, a Divided World, a World at
War and a Growth World.
The impact is modelled using the
International Futures forecasting platform from
the University of Denver and is currently being
presented for discussion and validation in a
series of public events.
On the current trajectory, the Divided World
scenario appears most likely. This would see a
more fragmented global order and the retreat
from a rules-based system over time.
Powerful countries, including the US and
China, alternate between efforts to frame a
favourable global agenda and isolationism.
The likelihood of this scenario will accelerate
if Donald Trump is re-elected as US President
in 2024, to the detriment of the West and
ultimately, itself.
In a world where the US and EU don’t act
as one, China could overtake the EU in power
potential in 2027 and the US in 2031.
THE WORLD'S DIVIDED FUTURE
As global upheavals change the world as we know it, four scenarios reveal the impacts
on our long-term future.
On the current trajectory, the Divided World scenario
appears most likely. This would see a more fragmented
global order and the retreat from a rules-based system
over time. Powerful countries, including the US and
China, alternate between efforts to frame a favourable
global agenda and isolationism.
On this trajectory, the steady loss in legitimacy,
influence and salience of the United
Nations proceeds apace, and Africa suffers.
Peacekeeping and support for peacemaking in
Africa decline.
Hard power competition dominates in the
World at War scenario. Three triggers could
realise this scenario.
The first is the escalation of Russia’s war on
Ukraine into a broader military confrontation
with NATO. Or China could invade Taiwan with
military intervention from the US and others.
A third trigger – less likely given the large
disparities in their material power capabilities
– could be border conflict and eventually a
war between India and China. Although India
will continue to have significantly fewer power
capabilities than China, the two are increasingly
regional and global power competitors that
share a long border.
The rivalry between Chinese-supported,
nuclear-armed Pakistan and India over
Kashmir could be a trigger, particularly if
the two look to balance their relations with
Washington and Beijing.
In the World at War scenario, Russia and
China enter into a formal military alliance in
direct opposition to NATO. Others eventually
join the China-Russia treaty, including Iran,
which has a long-standing aggrievement with
the West.
Africa becomes a key area of competition
for control of its strategic mineral resources in
the World at War scenario. China has been a
first mover in securing a supply of the minerals
required for the transition to a renewables-
based future, including lithium, nickel, cobalt,
manganese and palladium. Now, the West
aggressively plays catch-up.
Neoliberal, trickle-down economics
characterise the Growth World, with little care
for the environment. This high-growth, unequal
world would see slow reductions in extreme
poverty. Efforts to introduce minimum tax
rates for corporates don’t get off the ground.
Large digital companies, particularly from the
US, continue to increase their profits without a
physical presence in the countries where they
operate.
The practice of tax avoidance through profit
shifting to low-tax jurisdictions effectively leads
to a race to the bottom as countries compete to
attract foreign direct investment.
Developing countries suffer, and the licit and
illicit financial outflows from Africa’s 46 low-
and lower-middle-income countries accelerate.
The Sustainable World scenario is the most
difficult to achieve. Unlike the other three
paths, it requires deliberate choices and bold
leadership to achieve a better world against
inevitable domestic resistance.
In this scenario, the international community
balances growth and distribution by reducing
overall consumption and constraining
greenhouse gas emissions. Collaboration and
norm development extend across multiple
sectors.
The Sustainable World is the only forecast
in which Africa achieves its Agenda 2063
ambitions for an integrated, prosperous and
peaceful continent.
Three developments could unlock this
sustainable future. The first is democratisation
in China and Russia, as unlikely as that may
seem.
The second is a global push to reverse the
corrosion of the rules-based system through
a determined process of democratisation and
structural evolution.
Third, a reluctant world community is forced
into a collective response due to the rapid
acceleration of the impact of climate change
and global pandemics.
These scenarios are being tested and
refined with global experts.
The workshops and their outcomes can be
viewed on the
African Futures and Innovation
website, which forecasts Africa’s future two
decades into the future.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
34
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  35
BIO-ECONOMY VITAL
for Africa's socio-economic development and sustainability
By Dr Blade Nzimande
Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation
T
he fifth BIO Africa
Convention 2022 was
held at the end of August
in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal.
The 2020 and 2021 BIO
Africa conventions were
virtual because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Despite this, the 2021 convention attracted
a staggering 1 308 attendees from at least
39 countries.
The fifth convention was held under
the theme: “Africa Resilient: Life Sciences
Innovation for Achieving Health and Food
Security” and was part of the response to the
African Union's (AU) Agenda 2063, which is
the continent’s strategic framework that aims to
deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable
development.
and ultimately a whole-of-society approach
to innovation in South Africa. We have
begun with our work to establish a standing
ministerial-level STI committee, involving key
ministries, and President Cyril Ramaphosa
will be hosting an annual STI Plenary, which
will include business, government, academia
and civil society.
Our goal is to ensure a “just transition” in
both our traditional economic sectors, as well
as to lay the foundation for the emergence
of new economic sectors, including in
the spheres of biodiversity and the digital
economy.
To come close to achieving the overarching
objective of the convention, as articulated in its
theme, there are several things that we must
focus on. As we collectively responded to the
COVID-19 pandemic, Africa also must deal
The organisers of this year’s convention could
not have chosen a more apt theme, intended
to inspire Africa’s policymakers, scientists and
social actors to steer our continent away from
being only a knowledge-consuming region
and turning it into a self-reliant, knowledge-
generating and innovating one.
As a country, the objectives of the
convention perfectly aligned with the 2019
White Paper on Science, Technology and
Innovation (STI) and our Science, Technology
and Innovation Decadal Plan 2021 – 2031,
whose key objectives include accelerating the
implementation of the Pan-African STI agenda
and focussing on inclusivity, transformation,
SMME support and job creation, among
others.
The Decadal Plan is premised on
advancing a whole-of-government approach
BIO-ECONOMY VITAL FOR AFRICA
with the wider set of crises, which are global
in nature, but have a specific manifestation
and impact on our continent; that of social
inequality, climate change, technological
disruption, and linked to all the above: a crisis
of the global capitalist system.
In fact, we cannot speak of a sustainable,
let alone equal society, unless and until we
fundamentally change the nature of the global
economic and social order.
The importance of bio-economy
African policymakers, scientists and other
social actors need to urgently understand and
embrace the importance of bio-economy for
Africa’s socio-economic development and
sustainability.
Across the world, the concept of a bio-
economy is being embraced as a sustainable
model that brings together all commercial
activity surrounding the use of renewable
biological resources such as crops, forests,
animals and micro-organisms, agricultural
waste and residual material.
This is being done to address challenges
related to food security, health, biodiversity
and environmental protection, energy and
industrial processes. It is therefore no
exaggeration to state that the very survival
of humanity is dependent on how we
manage the Earth’s resources. The second
important challenge relates to inequality on
our continent. According to Oxfam: “Africa
is the second most unequal continent in the
world, and home to seven of the most unequal
countries. The richest 0.0001% own 40% of
the wealth of the entire continent. Africa's
three richest billionaire men have more wealth
than the bottom 50% of the population of
Africa, approximately 650 million people.”
As policymakers, scientists and social
actors, we must take well-thought,
collaborative and decisive action on how to
turn Africa into an innovative and self-reliant
continent. To our advantage, we have an
incredibly rich biodiversity and a relatively
large proportion of arable land. All this puts
us in a favourable position to translate our
biodiversity into a viable, competitive and
sustainable bio-economy.
We are therefore duty-bound to use our
biodiversity and arable land to take Africa
and her people out of the trap of grinding
and debilitating poverty. It is vital to identify
and mobilise sources to fund research
development and innovation in Africa in line
with the priorities and challenges facing our
continent.
We cannot be able to advance most of our
research, science, technology and innovation
goals unless we have our own resources
to fund research and be less dependent on
donor-driven funding.
African countries embrace bio-economy
The third issue we must focus on is to
encourage and support more African
countries to not just embrace the importance
of the bio-economy, but for them to proactively
develop the necessary policy and institutional
and scientific capacity to build a viable bio-
economy in Africa.
This is linked to the fundamental task of
a research funding regime that is based on
advancing the African Agenda.
This task is particularly urgent if we consider
the observations by the United Nations (UN)
on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
on food security. The UN states that “in the
aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, world
hunger increased substantially – estimates
from the State of Food Security and Nutrition
around the World reveal that as many as 161
million people fell into hunger between 2019
and 2020, bringing the world´s total to 811
million people facing food insufficiency.
“In other words, about one in 10 people in
the world went to bed without enough nutrition
in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
The UN further observes that “Africa has
been particularly vulnerable: about 21% of
people on the continent suffered from hunger
in 2020, a total of 282 million people.
“Between 2019 and 2020, in the aftermath
of the pandemic, 46 million people became
hungry in Africa.
“No other region on the world presents a
higher share of its population suffering from
food insecurity.”
In this respect, while we recognise the
work that is done by South Africa, as a
continent, we must commend the work that
is being done by other African countries
such as Namibia, Uganda, Ghana and
Kenya that have implemented several policy
and institutional measures to promote the
sustainable management and use of their
biodiversity.
Those African countries that are yet to
implement these measures can learn from
the experiences of these countries, such as:
• the importance of identifying gateway
sectors through which to initiate the
development of transition to a bio-
economy
• strengthening links to research and
development and markets for new bio-
products and bio-solutions
• developing demand for bio-products and
bio-solutions
• regulating sustainability incentives and
managing trade-offs
• setting up independent national
advisory boards to inform and guide the
development of bio-economies.
Across the world, the concept of a bio-economy is
being embraced as a sustainable model that brings
together all commercial activity surrounding the use of
renewable biological resources such as crops, forests,
animals and micro-organisms, agricultural waste and
residual materials.
African policymakers, scientists and other social actors need to urgently understand and
embrace the importance of bio-economy for Africa’s socio-economic development
and sustainability.
DIPLOMACY | BIO-ECONOMY VITAL FOR AFRICA'S SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

BIO-ECONOMY VITAL FOR AFRICA
Impact of COVID-19 on livelihoods
The fourth issue relates to the impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on livelihoods.
A 2021 study by Kenya’s Daystar University
reveals that: “The negative effect of COVID-19
on the world economy is estimated to be
US$12 trillion by 2021.
“During the same period, over 400 million
full-time jobs were lost globally by the second
quarter of 2020. In Africa, the pandemic
led to a negative growth of -5.1% by 2020,
thereby plunging the continent into the worst
recession in 25 years.”
The study further states that: “For small and
medium enterprises (SMEs) which employ
between 70% and 90% of the population,
the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic
has been even more severe with 87% of
business owners uncertain about the future
of their businesses. The biggest challenges
to business survival were associated
inadequate financing support, uncertainty,
lack of government support and numerous
measures meant to curb COVID-19 such as
lockdowns”.
In terms of lessons learnt from COVID-19,
the Department of Science and Innovation
(DSI) coordinated a package of responses
across the National System of Innovation
to address South Africa’s readiness for the
impact of COVID-19. The response has been
centred on four pillars namely:
• analytics and modelling
• research and innovation
• manufacturing
• international cooperation initiatives in
support of the global response to the
pandemic.
Government reallocated substantial financial
resources to fund COVID-19 projects,
including epidemiological studies and
genomic surveillance that placed South
African scientists on the international map,
working with other countries to find solutions
to the pandemic.
The KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation
and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) identified
the Coronavirus Beta variant.
The KRISP team’s genome sequencing
demonstrated South Africa’s leadership in this
area on the world stage and contributed to the
understanding of emerging variants and their
effect on the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines.
This work informed government decision-
making on which vaccines to procure, with
genomic surveillance becoming a critical
component of a targeted response to the
epidemic throughout the country. KRISP’s
research has been used to inform the planning
and responses of other countries as well.
South Africa also developed its own
diagnostics and reagents needed to diagnose
COVID-19 cases.
The awarding of the Global mRNA
technology transfer hub to South Africa is also
acknowledgement of the abilities of South
African scientists.
The DSI’s African Natural Medicines
Platform worked closely with the World Health
Organisation-Regional Office for Africa (WHO-
AFRO), through its Advisory and Expect
Committee on African Medicines, which
visited South Africa to monitor the country’s
capability in terms of research, innovation,
manufacturing and clinical utilisation of
African natural medicines.
Supported by the Africa Centres for Disease
Control and Prevention, the AU Commission
and the European and Developing Countries
Clinical Trials Partnership, the WHO-AFRO
affirmed that South Africa was best placed
to provide continental leadership in research
and manufacturing of these health products,
including the role of traditional health
practitioners.
Food security
Regarding food security resilience, some of
the lessons learnt in relation to agriculture
were in nutrition security, supply chains and
the digital agriculture system.
Collaborative work among government
departments, the business sector and active
involvement of communities and SMMEs
demonstrated the importance of inclusivity for
a resilient food and nutrition sector.
South Africa is promoting the inclusion
of all forms of food products, especially
underutilised indigenous crops, which are
readily available across the continent. It must
be remembered that the AU declared 2022
the “Year of Nutrition”. There have been
increased efforts and commitment to prioritise
and invest in nutrition at continental level.
Therefore, upholding the cultural heritage
and practices of Africans includes the
consumption of staple and indigenous
African foods given their nutritional value and
potential to contribute towards food security
and health of the African population.
Through its Indigenous Knowledge-Based
Nutraceutical Platform and the Agricultural
Biotechnology Innovation Programme, the
DSI supported various communities and
SMMEs with technologies that added value
to their crops and products across provinces.
Some of our flagship programmes are
in soya, maize, moringa, Bambara nuts,
amadumbe, cowpea, numerous green leafy
vegetables and health infusions.
For Africa to be resilient, especially in cases
of disasters and pandemics, it is essential to
deliberately foster an interface of indigenous
knowledge and modernisation through
digitisation.
Working with the Department of Agriculture,
Land Reform and Rural Development, we will
co-launch a National Biosecurity Research
Hub later this year.
This hub will prioritise both the generation
of digital scientific information hubs, coupled
with development of digitisation platforms, to
support disease management, surveillance
and monitoring for both domestic and
international trade.
These models are being shared with other
African countries and will contribute a great
deal to continental resilience against natural
disasters, pandemics and wars.
It is vital to come up with concrete policy
actions that must be undertaken by African
governments to enable small businesses,
especially in the Indigenous Knowledge
System sector, to recover from the devastating
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
This will give them an opportunity to
increase their output and gain easy access to
local and international markets.
Government reallocated substantial financial resources to fund COVID-19 projects,
including epidemiological studies and genomic surveillance that placed South African
scientists on the international map, working with other countries to find solutions
to the pandemic.
DIPLOMACY | BIO-ECONOMY VITAL FOR AFRICA'S SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  36

| Diplomacy
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
39
The Indo-Pacific:  An emerging paradigm for
peace, cooperation, sustainable development
and mutual prosperity
By Prof. Anil Sooklal
Ambassador-at-Large: Asia and BRICS
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
THE INDO-PACIFIC: AN EMERGING PARADIGM
Is it merely an aspirational goal or can we
collectively commit to ensuring that the Indo-Pacific
is indeed a region of peaceful co-existence and
common prosperity?
The direction in which the Indo-Pacific evolves will depend on the decisions and choices
we make as architects and custodians of one of the most dynamic and vibrant regions
of the world.
T
he Indo-Pacific (IP) is
increasingly replacing
the Asia Pacific (AP) as
a geopolitical construct.
Even though the phrase
AP has been used widely
since the early 1960s, its usage is often
imprecise and elusive and has tendered to
change over the years in line with shifts in
global geo-economics.
The IP has firmly established itself on
the global geopolitical agenda. Its time
has come. It has supplanted the term AP
because the world has evolved drastically
since the dawn of the new millennium.
In the 21st-century globalised cyber-
connected world, the economic engine is
the centre, and that centre of gravity is the
IP.
The IP is an expanded vision that
encompasses both the Pacific and Indian
oceans. Increasingly, it is being viewed as
a single geopolitical construct stretching
from the eastern shores of Africa to the
western shores of the Americas. However,
this inclusive view of the IP is not shared
by all. There are varying interpretations of
what constitutes the IP.
Of the numerous visions, strategies
and discussion papers on the IP, which
are increasing in volume with accelerated
speed, many omit the inclusion of the east
coast of Africa as part of the IP architecture.
However, it is important to note the vision
of Prime Minster Narendra Modi of the IP
region being all embracing and inclusive.
Speaking at the Shangri-La Dialogue in
Singapore in June 2018, he noted: “India’s
own engagement in the IP region is from
the shores of Africa to that of the Americas
– it will be inclusive”. He further stated:
“We will promote a rule-based international
order in which all nations, small and large,
thrive as equal and sovereign.”
India and Africa have a long-shared
history of colonialism, subjugation and our
common struggle for freedom, democracy
and a just and inclusive world order.
The evolving IP construct provides an
opportunity to work together in shaping the
IP as per the vision of Prime Minister Modi.

The rules-based international order
The phrase “rules-based international
order” is today etched in the speeches
of almost every head of state on global
platforms.
The rules-based international order
that pooled the collective wisdom of world
leaders following the devastation of World
War II is today a shadow of what it was
originally envisaged. It was an order
constructed mainly by democratic allies
and expanded by many countries over
time.
It is a system predicated by a set of
norms, principles and values that speak to
global security, economy and governance.
It subscribes to a set of rules committed
to peaceful, predictable and collaborative
behaviour among states that is consistent
with the values of democracy, freedom and
the sovereign equality of all states, large
or small, as enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations (UN).
How do we ensure that the IP will be
underpinned by a rules-based order with
international law at its centre? Is it merely
an aspirational goal or can we collectively
commit to ensuring that the IP is indeed
a region of peaceful co-existence and
common prosperity?
India and South Africa as champions of
democracy must work together with like-
minded countries within the region to be
catalysts in actively mobilising support
for the IP to be free, open, inclusive and
responsive to the needs of especially the
developing world.
Many in the developed world and
more recently, countries from the global
South, style themselves as defenders
of an international rules-based order,
with the UN at the centre, defenders of
human rights and fundamental freedoms,
defenders of multilateralism and defenders
of the UN Charter and its purposes and
principles.
We must ensure that the IP is
underpinned by multipolarity and does not
become the domain of a few hegemons.
We have witnessed in recent times the
undermining of international law as well as
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea
(UNCLOS) and the UN Arbitral Tribunal
pertaining to territorial disputes in the IP.
Within the maritime domain, we notice
that multilateralism is being deliberately
weakened amid attempts to change the
agendas of international organisations to
serve the interests of the few. It is important
for us to entrench the core principles of
UNCLOS as one of the foundational pillars
THE INDO-PACIFIC: AN EMERGING PARADIGM DIPLOMACY |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  38

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
40
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  41
THE INDO-PACIFIC: AN EMERGING PARADIGM
The Indian and Pacific oceans together with the other
water bodies of the world are a global common good
that is a vital asset for the preservation for our planet and
the future of humanity and all forms of life.
THE INDO-PACIFIC: AN EMERGING PARADIGM
of the IP. It is noteworthy to recall the
primary objectives of UNCLOS, namely, to:
• promote the peaceful use of the
seas and oceans
• facilitate international
communications
• enable equitable and efficient
utilisation of ocean resources
• protect and preserve the marine
environment
• promote maritime safety.
These are noble principles to which all
117 member states committed to upon
signing the convention in 1982 in ensuring
a regime of law and order in the world’s
oceans and seas. Today, there are 168
state parties to UNCLOS.
In 1971, the UN General Assembly
adopted Resolution 2832, declaring the
Indian Ocean a zone of peace. It will be
appropriate for the provisions of this
declaration to also extend to the IP as a
whole. Perhaps, such an initiative warrants
our serious attention given the increased
militarisation and weaponisation of the IP.
Traditional and non-traditional security
threats
In looking at the security challenges in
the IP, it is important to recognise the
indivisibility and interconnectedness of
global security. Security challenges in
the IP mirror the security challenges
we experience within our countries and
regions as well as globally. Resolution
2832 called upon the major powers to enter
into consultation with the littoral states
of  the Indian Ocean to halt the further
escalation of the military presence there
and to eliminate all the bases, military
installations and logistical supply facilities,
nuclear weapons and other weapons of
mass destruction. Furthermore, it called
upon the littoral and hinterland states, the
permanent members of the UN Security
Council and other major maritime users of
the Indian Ocean to enter into consultation
aimed at the implementation of the
declaration, whereby:
• warships and military aircrafts
would not use the Indian Ocean for
any threat or use of force against
any littoral and hinterland state
• the right to free and unimpeded use
of the zone by the vessels of all
nations would be ensured
• international agreement would be
reached for the maintenance of the
Indian Ocean as a zone of peace.
Some 50 years since the declaration was
adopted, it remains aspirational as the
major provisions of the declaration still
have to be implemented by the very powers
who adopted this landmark declaration.
The IP is today the most militarised
region in the world. The number of military
bases, installations and facilities is leading
to increased maritime competition and
contestation in the IP among both major
and emerging powers, each seeking to
establish its hegemony and spheres of
influence in the region. The increased
pace of militarisation of the IP is a matter of
deep concern as it undermines developing
an architecture of peace cooperation
and mutual coexistence. The region is
increasingly vulnerable to the proliferation
of nuclear, chemical and biological
weapons with emerging cybersecurity
threats.
Equally concerning is the continued
spread of extremism and terrorism in the
region. In Africa, the devastation caused by
the rise of terrorism is most evident in East
Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Sahel and
more recently, in Mozambique, in southern
Africa. According to the latest
Global
Terrorism Index  (GTI), composed by the
Australian-based Institute for Economics
and Peace, sub-Saharan Africa is becoming
the locus of terrorism, spearheaded by
the expansion of the Islamic State (IS). In
terms of terrorist groups, the GTI singled
out IS as the deadliest, underlining its
expansion via affiliates in Africa’s Sahel
that has made the region the core of
terrorist resurgence. The failure of UN
member states to have an agreed-upon
definition of terrorism continues to be
a major obstacle to meaningful counter
measures in combatting terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations. It is important
that like-minded countries collaborate
in combatting the scourge of terrorism
within the IP as it seriously undermines
the security of the region. Further security
challenges warranting collaborative action
include maritime piracy; human and narco-
trafficking; proliferation of small arms;
illegal migration; illegal, unreported and
unregulated fishing; corruption; and money
laundering, all of which undermine the rule
of law and democracy.
Free and open trade, including
connectivity and digitalisation
The IP is the most populous region in the
world, accounting for 60% of the global
population and is also the fastest-growing
and most economically vibrant part of the
world contributing to over 60% of global
gross domestic product (GDP).
It is also home to the largest middle-class
population. Despite the increasing levels of
competition and contestation in the region,
intra-regional trade serves as a catalyst
in linking countries of the IP in multiple
trade arrangements both at bilateral and
multilateral levels.
The region is home to several mega trade
agreements underlining the vast potential
for cooperation and mutual benefits.
Despite the proliferation of several
mega free trade agreements in the
region, including the Comprehensive and
Progressive Trans-Pacific Partnership and
the Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership, a large part of the trade
potential of the IP remains untapped.
We are yet to obtain the details of the
recently launched Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework. Improved trade facilitation
could harness greater gains for the
region. A further barrier to fully realise the
economic potential of the IP is the need for
enhanced infrastructure and connectivity
leading to reduced trade transportation
costs.
Maritime transport is the backbone
of international trade and the global
economy. Around 90% of traded goods are
transported by sea. As such, the oceans
provide the main transport arteries for
global trade. The IP is home to some of
the most strategic choke points, including
the Malacca Strait, Gulf of Hormuz, Suez
Canal and the Bab-el-Mandeb. Despite
the vulnerabilities associated with the
structural and geopolitical risks, these
choke points are critical waterways
in facilitating international trade. It is
important for these choke points to remain
free and accessible to all equally and not
become political pawns in major power
rivalry. For Africa and the global trading
community, the Suez Canal is a vital artery
in connecting with the world. Approximately
12% of global trade and some 17 000 ships
transit annually through the Suez Canal. In
March 2022, the six-day blockage of the
canal by the stranded
Ever Given , among
the world’s largest ships, demonstrated
how vital the global choke points are to
global trade.
The Malacca Strait linking the Indian
and Pacific oceans is another strategic
shipping lane. It carries about 40% of the
world’s trade with over 24 000 container
ships traversing the waterway annually. At
least 15 million barrels of oil per day flow
through the strait from the Gulf states and
West Africa, comparable to the 17 million
barrel per day that flow via the Strait of
Hormuz.
Digitalisation and connectivity are
equally important in advancing and
enhancing trade in the IP. It is the world’s
fastest-growing region for Internet usage
and digital connectivity between people
and businesses. The digital transformation
has the potential to spur rapid economic
growth. It is important to advance an
open digital economy and the expansion
of secure, market-driven and rules-based
Internet use. However, to date, few
laws exist to guard against cybercrime,
e-commerce and e-governance. Advancing
an open, interoperable and secure
communications network in the region
will play an important role in assisting
to realise the vast economic, social and
developmental benefits of the digital
economy.
The e-commerce market has also
spiked in recent times, driven in the main
by the impact of “lockdowns” as a result
of the Coronavirus pandemic. The IP is
the fastest-growing region in the global
e-commerce marketplace. However, the
sector continues to be dominated by a
few countries. Africa’s share of the global
e-commerce market was a mere 2% in
2017. The e-commerce market is an
important platform for small and medium
enterprises in the endeavour to reach
global markets and compete internationally.
E-commerce has improved economic
efficacy and created thousands of new
jobs in developing economies, offering a
chance to narrow the development gaps
and increase inclusiveness. It has also
helped to narrow the rural-urban divide.
Environmental security and climate
change
Maritime environmental security, including
climate change, biodiversity loss, food
security as well as human-made and
natural disasters have a profound impact
on the livelihoods of the people of the IP.
The recently released
Sixth Assessment
Report  of the International Panel on
Climate Change emphasises the urgency
of adapting to and mitigating climate
change in coastal regions. Climate change
is likely to have significant implications on
maritime security in the IP.
It is critical for countries of the region
as well as regional bodies to scale up
efforts to meet the multitude of challenges
of the economic, political, social, security,
humanitarian and development arenas
arising from climate change.
The impact of climate change on
developing countries, especially least
developed countries (LDCs) and small
island developing states (SIDs) in the IP
is most acute. It is important for developed
countries of the region to scale up its
climate finance commitments, including
technology-sharing to help countries of
the region tackle climate change and its
devastating impact on their livelihoods.
The Blue Economy is vital to the food
security and livelihoods for millions of
people throughout the region. It is also an
important and significant contributor to the
GDP of many countries, including LDCs
and SIDs.
Aquaculture and fisheries are a vital
source of food and livelihood for a large
number of countries. The protection
and sustainability of this sector from the
devastating impact of climate change are
vital. Human interference of the seas also
has a direct impact on climate change. The
destruction of habitats through overfishing,
pollution and acidification, among others,
have serious impacts on the livelihoods of
the people. The Indian and Pacific oceans
together with the other water bodies of
the world are a global common good that
is a vital asset for the preservation for our
planet and the future of humanity and all
forms of life.
Sustainable development and a people-
centred IP
Over the past four decades, the IP region
has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty
and underdevelopment. The accelerated
economic growth, specifically of emerging
market and developing countries in the
region, especially over the past two
decades, has seen the rapid rise of the
largest middle-class population globally.
Many countries have successfully pushed
back the frontiers of poverty, inequality
and underdevelopment, leading to decent
livelihoods for millions previously living as
outliers of society.
To preserve and ensure the sustainable
development of the region, it is imperative
that we act as a collective in advancing
the rich and diverse human and natural
assets and preserving the history, culture
and heritage of the IP. The region has the
largest youth population globally, which
is both a challenge and an opportunity.
Youth and women development and
advancement must be a priority for all
countries of the region. Equipping our
youth and women with the appropriate
education and skills is necessary to
ensure decent employment for all. We
need to encourage entrepreneurship by
introducing appropriate incentives and
support programmes.
Women and youth face distinct
challenges in participating in the productive
sectors of the economy. Large and growing
youth unemployment threatens sustainable
development and social stability. Women
continue to experience barriers in every
aspect of economic life.
An inclusive IP must ensure all its
peoples prosper together. This inclusive
approach is at the core of the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development. As the
The increased pace of militarisation of the Indo-Pacific is a matter of deep concern
as it undermines developing an architecture of peace cooperation and mutual
coexistence. The region is increasingly vulnerable to the proliferation of nuclear,
chemical and biological weapons with emerging cybersecurity threats.

Diplomacy |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
42
countries from South and East Africa,
including the small island states of the
Indian Ocean are full members of IORA. As
the IORA finalises its vision/outlook on the
IP in 2022, this could serve as a catalyst
towards developing an African perspective
on the IP.
Conclusion
The IP has emerged as a major geopolitical
and geo-economic construct and is today at
the epicentre of the emerging international
order. It is a region rich with possibilities
for the future shared prosperity of all its
peoples.
However, it is also a region fraught
with many challenges, which must be
collectively addressed in an inclusive and
cooperative spirit.
The region is characterised by increased
competition and contestation with the
possibility of major power conflict.
As a global common good and invaluable
heritage and asset to all to who reside
within its shores and beyond, the Indian
and Pacific oceans must be the harbingers
of the future prosperity and progress of
humanity.
The direction in which the IP evolves will
depend on the decisions and choices we
make as architects and custodians of one
of the most dynamic and vibrant regions of
the world.
It is important that we commit to building
a free, open and inclusive IP wherein we all
benefit from the rich opportunities that the
IP provides while collectively addressing
the numerous challenges, some of which
have been cited above.
Together, we must endeavour to
build an IP community underpinned by
peace, stability, cooperation, sustainable
development and mutual prosperity in
contributing to creating a better world for
all its inhabitants.
THE INDO-PACIFIC: AN EMERGING PARADIGM
preamble notes, “The Agenda is a plan of
action for people, planet and prosperity. It
also seeks to strengthen universal peace
in larger freedom”. Paragraph 4 of the
declaration further notes: “As we embark
on this great collective journey, we pledge
that no one will be left behind”.
The future of the IP will be further
strengthened and enhanced through
stronger and more resilient and sustainable
people-to-people partnerships. Deepening
partnerships and cooperation between
countries, subregions and its peoples will
contribute to enhancing and strengthening
the foundations of the IP architecture,
underpinned by peace, interdependence
and mutual prosperity.
Africa and the IP
For South Africa and Africa, the IP must be
viewed within the context of partnerships,
cooperation, mutual prosperity and
development in a human-centred IP that is
open, inclusive and underpinned by peace
and security.
To date, no African country, Regional
Economic Community or the African Union
(AU) have developed a strategy, position or
foreign policy outlook on the IP.
Africa risks being marginalised and
becoming an outlier in the fast-evolving IP
construct.
It is critical that a serious focus at
national, regional and continental level is
brought to the fore by policymakers within
the continent, with the AU taking the lead in
evolving an IP vision for Africa.
Africa’s 13 littoral and small island states
in the western IP are an integral part of the
region.
The IP is critical in advancing the AU’s
economic regeneration and its development
agenda as articulated in Agenda 2063: The
Africa We Want. It is Africa’s blueprint and
master plan for transforming Africa into a
global powerhouse of the future.
Africa is often referred to as the last
frontier of global growth. The continent
is home to 1.3 billion people and its
population is projected to almost double
by 2050 to 2.5 billion. According to the UN,
Africa is home to about 30% of the world’s
mineral resources. The continent also
holds 40% of the world’s gold and up to
90% of its chromium and platinum as well
as significant deposits of rare earth.
With over 30 000 km² of coastline and over
1.5 million km² of exclusive economic
zones, African countries, both on the
continent and adjacent island states, are
highly dependent on the oceans for its rich
resources.
The oceans underpin coastal livelihoods
and food security and protect vulnerable
zones against extreme weather and
climate events.
For Africa, the IP will be viewed within
the vision of the AU’s Decade of African
Seas and Oceans, 2015 – 2025, as well
as Africa’s Integrated Maritime Strategy
(AIMS) 2050.
The overarching vision of the AIMS is
to foster increased wealth creation from
Africa’s oceans and seas by developing
the Blue Economy in a secure and
environmentally sustainable manner. The
strategy provides a broad framework for
the protection and sustainable exploitation
of the oceans and seas.
The AU’s Agenda 2063 as well as the
African Continental Free Trade Agreement,
while focussed on Africa’s development
and economic prosperity, are integrally
linked to the global economy as well as the
global peace and security architecture.
The security, development and economic
growth of Africa is linked to the IP as an
integral part of the region. Africa’s major
trade, investment and development
partners are in the region.
It is the main conduit through which
the continent conducts the majority
of its geopolitical and geo-economic
relations. Africa and the IP must build a
mutually interdependent and cooperative
relationship for common prosperity.
For this to materialise, it is important for
the continent to take a serious view of the
IP and become an active contributor to the
evolving IP architecture and not remain an
onlooker on the margins.
A good building block in developing an
African IP vision will be the Indian Ocean
Rim Association (IORA), together with
the AU’s Agenda 2063 and AIMS. Nine
Africa and the Indo-Pacific (IP) must build a mutually interdependent and cooperative
relationship for common prosperity. For this to materialise, it is important for the
continent to take a serious view of the IP and become an active contributor to the
evolving IP architecture and not remain an onlooker on the margins.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
44
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  45
By Letlhogonolo Mashilo
Department of International Relations and Cooperation
T
he IORA Secretariat in
Mauritius hosted four
junior diplomats from
IORA member states
(Bangladesh, Madagascar,
South Africa and Sri
Lanka) under the inaugural IORA-Nelson
Mandela “Be the Legacy” Internship
Programme from 1 September to
30 November 2022.
The interns were nominated for
secondment to the programme through their
respective IORA member state capitals.
The NMIP was launched in 2018 during
South Africa’s Chair of IORA (2017 – 2019)
and the commemoration of the centenary
of the birth of the former late South African
President Nelson Mandela. The programme
is a befitting tribute to the legacy of former
President Mandela whose vision led to
IORA’s establishment in 1997.
The commencement of the programme
in 2020, however, was delayed due to the
COVID-19 global pandemic.
As one of the flagship projects of IORA,
the NMIP solidifies IORA’s link with the global
icon by contributing to one of his many visions
of changing the world for the better through
continuous learning, capacity-building
and raising of an individual’s awareness,
development and understanding. As Madiba
previously stated: “The power of education
extends beyond the development of skills we
need for economic success”.
The long-term objective of the NMIP is to
create a strong and growing base of young
THE NELSON MANDELA "BE THE LEGACY" INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
people in the Indian Ocean region who
understand and support the need to create
an Indian Ocean region that is safe and
secure and develops sustainably.
To this end, the interns gained valuable
exposure to the inner workings of IORA and
the rich diversity of work experience at the
Secretariat.
In this regard, extensive knowledge has
been acquired on how the IORA Secretariat
coordinates and collaborates with all the 23
IORA member states and the 10 dialogue
partners, respectively.
Additionally, practical skills were gained
through participating in IORA meetings
and assisting in collation, dissemination
of information, maintenance of extensive
archival, depository and registry of IORA
documentation and research materials.
Furthermore, skills were developed
through the drafting of concept notes, project
proposals, articles for possible publication
and undertaking in-depth research on IORA-
related matters such as the sustainable
exploitation of deep seabed mineral
resources and state of cooperation of IORA
member states on renewable energy, to
mention just a few.
Concrete project management skills were
enhanced during the research of IORA
projects and its priority areas in addition to
the sourcing, development and monitoring of
social media content for publishing across all
IORA media platforms.
The presence of seconded interns at
the IORA offices further inculcated the
The Nelson Mandela
"BE THE LEGACY"
Internship Programme
THE NELSON MANDELA "BE THE LEGACY" INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
Secretariat’s value system and corporate
culture of Respect, Integrity and Excellence.
This, will in turn, strengthen the Secretariat
as called for in the IORA action plans by
creating a pool of junior diplomats in the
region with the requisite skills and expertise
for placement abroad in addition to creating
a valuable resource for their respective
ministries as the officials will act as conduits
to facilitate enhanced cooperation between
their respective IORA desks and the
Secretariat.
Furthermore, the “on-the-job training”
provided opportunities for the junior
diplomats to engage as accredited members
of the IORA Secretariat with the relevant
stakeholders of the host country, the
Republic of Mauritius.
Practical experience included diplomacy
and professional networking; attending high-
level official events and developing social
media content in raising awareness towards
IORA activities; writing high-quality content
for internal online publishing; drafting high-
quality outcome reports and speaking notes
for principals in the prescribed IORA format
in addition to contributing to effective team-
building and co-steering the IORA delegation
at official meetings with senior government
officials of the host country.
This also included technical hosting of
virtual meetings of no less than 20 attendees,
organising and planning educational
excursions to local historical sites such
as the Aapravasi Ghat, a United Nations
(UN) Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation World Heritage Site, and the
beach and biodiverse wetlands clean-up
initiative in Mauritius as part of the out-of-
the-office extracurricular activities.
During official visits to ministries (Local
Government and Disaster Risk Management,
Environment, Solid Waste Management and
Climate Change, Tourism, Foreign Affairs,
Regional Integration and International
Trade), pertinent issues aligning with topical
issues under the aegis of the IORA priority
areas and functional bodies were discussed
such as climate change, disaster risk and
crisis management, plastic pollution, the
UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and
support of maritime governance in the Indian
Ocean, Blue Economy as a future driver of
growth, tourism as a key engine of growth,
the role of South Africa and Mauritius in
IORA and the outlook of IORA on the Indo-
Pacific. Debates on the abovementioned
topical issues, accompanied by responses
from government specialists and experts,
provided an exclusive perspective on the
thinking of the host government regarding
the comparative valuation of IORA in
contrast to other regional organisations such
as the Indian Ocean Commission, whose
Secretariat is also hosted by Mauritius and
their perceived impact and achievement in
addressing their regional objectives.
Consequently, the strategic value of the
programme is two-sided as it simultaneously
addresses the issue of skills shortage at
the Secretariat and capacity-building for
respective ministries of IORA member
states.
The programme will further act as a
catalyst of IORA’s soft diplomacy to its
immediate region, which spans several
continents. The NMIP also coincided with
IORA’s 25th anniversary celebration, and
therefore, the programme is expected to not
only nurture the knowledge and skills-set
of its first recipients but also of upcoming
generations of junior diplomats and future
leaders of the IORA until the achievement
of the golden jubilee is reached (50-year
anniversary) in the year 2047.
In this regard, the potential of the inaugural
programme to build a firm foundation in
developing the calibre of exceptional junior
diplomats of the Indian Ocean region is a
long-term investment, which augurs well with
the values and legacy of the programme’s
namesake, the late former President Nelson
Mandela, whose memory will continue to
inspire past, present and future leaders of
the world, but particularly, those of the Indian
Ocean region.
The Nelson Mandela Internship Programme (NMIP) was launched in
2018 during South Africa’s Chair of Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA)
(2017 – 2019) and the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of
the former late South African President Nelson Mandela. The programme
is a befitting tribute to the legacy of former President Mandela whose
vision led to IORA’s establishment in 1997.
As one of the flagship projects of IORA, the NMIP solidifies IORA’s link with the
global icon by contributing to one of his many visions of changing the world for the
better through continuous learning, capacity-building and raising of an individual’s
awareness, development and understanding. As Madiba previously stated: “The
power of education extends beyond the development of skills
we need for economic success”.
Former President Nelson Mandela's memory will continue to inspire
past, present and future leaders of the world, but
particularly, those of the Indian Ocean region.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
46
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  47
Slangkop Lighthouse, Kommetjie, Western Cape

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
48
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  49
Blinken's African charm offensive
By Ronak Gopaldas
Institute for Security Studies Consultant, Director at Signal Risk and CAMM Fellow at the Gordon Institute of Business Science
U
nited States (US) Secretary
of State Antony Blinken’s
whistle-stop tour of Africa
recently was interesting for
various reasons – not least
its timing. It followed hot on
the heels of Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov’s visit – ostensibly to cement strategic
relations and support for the ongoing Ukraine
war.
The US charm offensive – involving visits
to South Africa, the Democratic Republic of
Congo and Rwanda – came as great powers
ramp up their engagement in Africa amid
increasing geopolitical and geo-economic
competition globally. So, the trip’s subtext was
around a new Cold War and Africa’s role and
relevance in that equation.
Blinken faced numerous immediate
challenges: counter the lingering resentment
towards the US and restore its lost credibility;
convey a shift in attitude and intent; and build
relationships with some strategically important,
but frosty, African allies.
The visit stands out for three reasons – its
candour, messaging and strategy. First, the
engagements contrasted with the banalities
that typically characterise such visits. In
Rwanda, Blinken didn’t shy away from the
controversial issues of human rights abuses
and the trial of Hotel Rwanda dissident Paul
Rusesabagina.
Meanwhile in South Africa, International
Relations Minister Naledi Pandor and Blinken
broached numerous controversial matters,
including Pretoria’s views on US hypocrisy
around democratic values, paternalism and
the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The engagements
displayed a refreshing honesty rarely seen in
diplomatic settings. This was important to win
over historical allies who have recently turned
critical of the US.
Pandor’s strong rhetoric reflects the
mood across large parts of Africa: that of
belligerence. An increasing number of African
sovereigns are no longer willing to be bullied
or dictated to, particularly by a country whose
moral legitimacy has receded in recent years.
American foreign policy is still suffering
the hangover effects of Trumpian insularity,
compounded by the general chaos of
that administration and the weakening of
multilateral institutions. Vaccine hoarding and
the West’s approach to the Ukraine conflict
have further dented Washington’s standing
with many African countries.
With African nations’ growing sense of
agency in global affairs and increasing
partnership options, Washington knows a very
different type of approach is required. This
raises the second theme of Blinken’s visit –
messaging. Rather than the fearmongering
that characterised the Trump administration’s
“cowboy diplomacy”, Blinken used constructive
and affirming language to try to win over
Africans.
BLINKEN'S AFRICAN CHARM OFFENSIVE
The shift to a more positive and less patronising
message suggests that the Americans are
finally reading the mood of the proverbial room.
On the tour, Blinken referred to Africa’s
power as a “geopolitical force”, stressed “a
partnership of equals”, and highlighted the
importance of “choice” for Africans.
There’s also been a deliberate effort to
avoid framing Africa as a playground in a proxy
battle between the US and China, given that
the Cold War narrative has angered African
policymakers and diplomats.
Instead, the focus was on providing a vision
that aligns with African interests and positioning
the US as the “partner of choice”. The new
administration seems to have understood the
importance of respect and African agency
– two criticisms that plagued previous US
engagements with Africa.
The softer tone is an effective strategy; this
greater self-awareness has been well received
in various quarters. Indeed, former US
Assistant Secretary of State for Africa, Tibor
Nagy, tweeted that Blinken had hit all the right
notes: “It’s not about China, Russia or even
the US – it’s about Africa, and Africa’s goals,
especially the young. US-Africa policy must
look at the continent through the windshield,
not the rear-view mirror.”
The third element was the unveiling of the
new US strategy for Africa, which aims to
position the US as the preferred partner by
presenting a clear vision and values for the
future. The White House says the new strategy
will be based on four pillars: the sovereignty
and independence of African countries; the
promotion and defence of democracy; Africa’s
adaptation to the climate crisis; and post-
COVID-19 economic recovery.
Blinken said at the University of Pretoria: “It’s
a strategy that reflects the region’s complexity,
its diversity, its agency; and one that focusses
on what we will do with African nations and
peoples, not for African nations and peoples.”
As expected, the economic strategy doubled
down on the US’ traditional focus areas –
private sector-led trade and investment. The
Prosper Africa initiative, started by the Trump
administration, has been reactivated alongside
the US’ answer to China’s Belt and Road
Initiative – the Build Back Better World.
Zainab Usman of the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace notes that the new
approach to climate change is both nuanced
and well-articulated and can catalyse a wave
of development and investment in Africa. But
there are still some obvious limitations.
The strategy still places the containment
of Russia and China highly in Washington’s
thinking (despite efforts to limit its focus).
There are also visible gaps in the approach to
migration and security.
However, viewed holistically, the strategy
marks a distinct shift from what Guillaume
Doane of 35°Nord terms the “malign neglect”
of the previous administration to actual
engagement. Along with the recently concluded
US-Africa Business Forum and the upcoming
US-Africa Leaders’ Summit (the first in almost
a decade), the trend is broadly positive.
Does this signal a new era in US-Africa
relations? Although the signs are promising,
it’s too early to say.
Institute for Security Studies Consultant
Peter Fabricius agrees. He told ISS Today:
“While Blinken struck the right notes, it might
be premature to judge that he reset relations
with the continent.
“No doubt, he erased the sour taste of
the Trump years – though Africans already
understood Trump was an aberration. But
winning over African countries from China and
Russia will be a mission, as the relations of
many African countries with those powers are
deeply rooted, historically, ideologically and
economically.”
Blinken’s visit was an essential public
relations exercise but won’t in itself shift the dial.
The undeniable progress in the engagement –
both in appearance and substance – should
be seen as an important step in the overdue
recalibration of US-Africa relations.
The US Secretary of State’s candid and constructive messages suggest an overdue
recalibration in US-Africa relations.

Diplomacy |  | Diplomacy
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
52
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  53
Unexpected outcomes
Like Gorbachev, De Klerk was a reformer
whose domestic reforms led to unexpected
consequences.
When De Klerk made his breakthrough
speech in February 1990, unbanning
the ANC and announcing that Nelson
Mandela would be released from prison
unconditionally, he made much of what had
happened in Eastern Europe and the Soviet
Union in late 1989.
He said that events there had weakened
“the capacity of organisations which were
previously supported strongly from those
quarters”.
Without Gorbachev, those changes would
not have taken place, and without them it is
unlikely that De Klerk would have moved as
he did at that time.
By the end of the 1980s, internal
pressures, most particularly from mass
resistance, and a variety of external
pressures from the West, including
sanctions, were undermining the apartheid
regime.
But of all the external factors that helped
lead to the ending of apartheid in 1994,
the collapse of the communist regimes of
Eastern Europe and the process leading
to the end of the Soviet Union must count
among the most important.
And we have Gorbachev to thank for that.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
MIKHAIL GORBACHEV: SOUTHERN AFRICANS HAVE A SPECIAL REASON TO THANK HIM
MIKHAIL GORBACHEV:
Southern Africans have a special reason to thank him
By Chris Saunders
Emeritus Professor, University of Cape Town
T
he whole world has
much to thank Mikhail
Gorbachev for. As many
have pointed out since his
death in Moscow recently,
Gorbachev – the last leader
of the Soviet Union – did more than anyone
to bring the Cold War to an end peacefully,
reducing the threat that nuclear weapons
might be used.
He allowed the countries of Eastern
Europe to move out of the Soviet orbit and
towards democracy in 1989.
And he tried to set Russia on the path to
a more democratic society. His actions led
to the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Though Vladimir Putin views that break-up
as a very negative development, most have
welcomed it.
Southern Africans have a special reason
to thank Gorbachev. He helped bring
apartheid to an end. He did this both directly
and indirectly.
Pivotal interventions
The assistance that the Soviet Union
provided to both the People’s Liberation
Army of Namibia and Umkhonto we Sizwe
was essential in enabling them to fight
armed struggles against the South African
regime. Without that assistance, the South
West Africa People’s Organisation and the
African National Congress (ANC) might not
have survived in exile, or ultimately come
to power.
But it was not those armed struggles that
brought them to power. That was made
possible in part by the fact that from 1988,
the balance of forces in the region changed.
In that Gorbachev played a major role.
Soon after taking over as general
secretary of the central committee of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union in
1985, he decided that the Soviet Union
should withdraw from regional wars in
which it was engaged, most notably in
Afghanistan and Angola. He then authorised
MIKHAIL GORBACHEV: SOUTHERN AFRICANS HAVE A SPECIAL REASON TO THANK HIM
his diplomats to engage with the Americans
to help mediate a negotiated settlement for
Angola.
They assisted in that process, which led to
an agreement being reached in December
1988 that provided for the withdrawal of
the Cuban military from Angola and the
independence of Namibia.
The Soviet Union then participated in
the joint commission that was set up as a
result of that agreement to ensure it was
implemented.
When a crisis in April 1989 threatened its
implementation, the Soviets again worked
with the Americans to help defuse the
crisis, after which Namibia moved towards
independence with the assistance of the
United Nations.
By then, the Soviet Union had made it
clear that it was in favour of a negotiated
settlement in South Africa.
At the same time, the communist ideology
that had underpinned the Soviet Union and
its satellite countries was crumbling.
The success of the Namibian transition
helped make possible the South African one
that followed. But it was also the collapse of
the communist regimes of Eastern Europe,
and the removal of what South Africa’s
National Party government had seen as
a communist threat, that made it possible
for the new President of South Africa, FW
de Klerk, to take his party with him when
he agreed to open the door to a negotiated
settlement.
The collapse of communism in Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union destroyed
what remaining credibility the idea of a “total
onslaught” still had in National Party circles
and reduced fears, both in those circles and
in Western capitals, that the South African
Communist Party would control the ANC if it
were to come to power.
Though De Klerk initially hoped for a
power-sharing arrangement, even such
a settlement, which turned out not to be
possible, meant the end of apartheid and
white minority rule.
Southern Africans have a special reason to thank Gorbachev. He helped bring apartheid
to an end. He did this both directly and indirectly.
Gorbachev – the last leader of the Soviet Union – did more than anyone
to bring the Cold War to an end peacefully, reducing the threat that nuclear
weapons might be used.
Of all the external factors
that helped lead to the
ending of apartheid in
1994, the collapse of the
communist regimes of
Eastern Europe and the
process leading to the
end of the Soviet Union
must count among the
most important.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
54
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  55
Happy 87th Birthday!
Dr Esther Mahlangu  11 November 2022

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
56 57
LIBERATION HERITAGE: LILIAN MASEDIBA NGOYI
LIBERATION HERITAGE:
Lillian Masediba Ngoyi
L
ilian Masediba Ngoyi was
born in Pretoria in 1911
to a family of six children
and obtained her primary
schooling in Kilnerton. She
later enrolled for a nursing
training course, but she eventually took up a
position as a machinist at a clothing factory
where she worked from 1945 to 1956.
She joined the Garment Workers Union
under Solly Sachs, and soon became one
of its leading figures. Impressed by the
spirit of African National Congress (ANC)
volunteers, she joined the ANC during the
1950 Defiance Campaign and was arrested
for using facilities in a post office that were
reserved for white people.
Her energy and her gift as a public
speaker won her rapid recognition, and
within a year of joining the ANC, she was
elected as president of the ANC Women's
League.
When the Federation of South African
Women was formed in 1954, she became
one of its national vice-presidents, and in
1956, she was elected president.
In 1955, she travelled to Europe as
a delegate to a conference called by
the Women's International Democratic
Federation, and was invited by socialist
delegates to tour Russia, China and other
Eastern bloc countries. She became a
member of the Transvaal ANC executive
from 1955, and in December 1956, she
became the first woman ever elected to the
ANC National Executive Committee.
Ngoyi also gained wide recognition
overseas as a radical opponent of
apartheid. Together with Dora Tamana, she
was arrested while trying to board a ship
on her way to a conference in Switzerland
without a passport.
She addressed protest meetings against
apartheid in several world centres, including
London's Trafalgar Square.
On 9 August 1956, together with Helen
Joseph, Rahima Moosa and Sophia Theresa
Williams de Bruyn, she led the women's
anti-pass march to the Union Buildings in
Pretoria, one of the largest demonstrations
staged in South African history.
Holding thousands of petitions in one
hand, Ngoyi was the one who knocked on
Prime Minister JG Strijdom’s door to hand
over the petitions. A voice from behind the
door told her she had been sent a letter
prohibiting her from coming to the Prime
Minister’s office.
Ngoyi answered: “The women of Africa
are outside. They built this place. Their
husbands died for this.”
They dropped their petitions, went back
to the marchers and waited in silence.
Eventually, Ngoyi said: “Strijdom is too
much of a coward to meet with us.” The
crowd then sang Nkosi Sikilel’ iAfrika,
followed by Wathint’ Abafazi, Wathint’
Imbokodo. Strijdom uzakufa (You strike a
woman, you strike a rock) and left quietly,
but with a sense of moral victory.
In December 1956, Ngoyi was arrested
for high treason along with 156 other
leading figures and stood trial until 1961
as one of the accused in the four-year-
long Treason Trial. While the trial was still
on and the accused out on bail, Ngoyi was
imprisoned for five months under the 1960
State of Emergency. She spent much of this
time in solitary confinement.
She was first issued her banning orders
in October 1962, which confined her to
Orlando Township in Johannesburg and
she was forbidden to attend any gatherings.
In the mid-1960s, she was jailed under the
90-day Detention Act and spent 71 days in
solitary confinement.
Her banning orders lapsed in 1972 but
were renewed for a new five-year period
in 1975. During the time of her banning,
Ngoyi’s great energies were totally
suppressed and she struggled to earn a
decent living. Ngoyi was banned for a total
of 18 years during which time she was all
but confined to a small house, forbidden to
move outside the boundaries of one small
area and attend gatherings of any kind.
Although battling to make a living from
sewing, she remained fearless and defiant,
refusing to give up hope: “My spirits have
not been dampened. I am looking forward to
the day when my children will share in the
wealth of our lovely South Africa.”
Although a victim of both gender
and racial discrimination, Lilian Ngoyi
demonstrated that these restrictions could
be transcended, and that women’s rights
and issues were central to the liberation
struggle.
Affectionately known as “Ma Ngoyi”, she
suffered heart trouble and died on 13 March
1980 at the age of 69.
Long before he wrote the award-winning
Down Second Avenue, Es’kia Mphahlele
described Ngoyi as “the most talked of
woman in politics” in an article in Drum
magazine.
www.sahistory.org.za / www.ru.ac.za / www.iol.co.za
LIBERATION HERITAGE: LILLIAN MASEDIBA NGOYI
Long before he wrote
the award-winning Down
Second Avenue, Es’kia
Mphahlele described
Ngoyi as “the most talked
of woman in politics” in an
article in Drum magazine.
Ngoyi was banned for a total of 18 years during which time she was all but confined to
a small house, forbidden to move outside the boundaries of one small area and attend
gatherings of any kind.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
58 59
Celebrating the legacy of
Solomon Linda
E
very year in September,
South Africa celebrates
Heritage Month to mark the
nation’s diverse culture and
heritage. The 2022 Heritage
Month was commemorated
under the theme: “Celebrating the Legacy
of Solomon Linda and South Africa’s
Indigenous Music”.
This year’s focus was on South Africa’s
indigenous music, which has played
an integral role during the struggle for
democracy and freedom.
On 8 October 1962, Solomon Linda, the
singer and composer of Mbube, which
became the pop hit as The Lion Sleeps
Tonight, died without receiving royalties for
his work.
Linda was born in Pomeroy in rural
KwaZulu-Natal in 1909 and went to Gordon
Memorial Mission School. At school, Linda
was exposed to different music genres
through church music and choir contests.
He also witnessed a visiting group of
African Americans from the United States
(US), the Jubilee Singers. Linda showed a
keen interest in music and fused these into
Zulu songs that he wrote and sang with his
friends at weddings and events around the
community. In the early 1930s, Linda moved
to Johannesburg where he worked at Mayi
Mayi furniture shop in Small Street in 1931,
before moving to work at the Carlton Hotel
in 1933.
He began singing with his uncles and
later started a group known as Solomon
Linda and the Evening Birds.
Their performances at weddings and
choir competitions made them popular
QUEEN ELIZABETH II: A REIGN THAT SAW THE END OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE IN AFRICA
around Johannesburg. In 1938, Linda and
the Evening Birds recorded several songs
in Eric Gallo's recording studios with the
assistance of a talent scout. By 1949,
Mbube had sold over 100 000 copies,
making Linda a musical star in South Africa.
Although Mbube is Linda's best-known
recorded song, he composed and recorded
other songs as well.
Some songs such as Yetul' isgqoko
(Take off your hat) and Sikhalela izwe
lakithi (We mourn for our country) carried
political undertones protesting against the
oppression and the harsh life experienced
by black South Africans under colonial rule.
Linda sold his rights of the song Mbube
to Gallo Record Company for 10 shillings.
Since South Africa was still a British Colony
when the rights were sold, under the
Dickens Clause in British Law, all rights
were supposed to revert to his heirs after 25
years of his death.
The heirs would then be entitled to those
rights and be able to renegotiate any future
deals. This did not happen, and Linda's work
was recorded and modified by other music
artists. This left the possibility of pursuing a
lawsuit in the future.
An American musicologist Alan Lomax
discovered the original South African
recording of Mbube and he gave it to his
friend Pete Seeger, who belonged to a folk
singing group, The Weavers.
Seeger renamed the song Wimoweh and
The Weavers recorded the song in 1952.
The song became popular in the US and
George Weiss rewrote the song and entitled
it The Lion Sleeps Tonight.
Since then, the song has been recorded
by over 150 artists for example, the Kingston
Trio, The Tokens, Robert John, Tight Fit,
Jimmy Dorsey and Glen Campbell, among
others.
The song has also featured in films such
as Ace Ventura: Pet Detective and The Lion
King.
After collapsing on stage in 1959, Linda
was diagnosed with a kidney disease. He
died on 8 October 1962 in poverty without
receiving benefits for his talent.
In 2000, a South African journalist, Rian
Malan, wrote a feature article for Rolling
Stone Magazine that told the story of
Solomon Linda.
Malan estimated that his song Mbube had
earned an estimated US$15 million for its
use in The Lion King alone.
In 2004, Solomon Linda's surviving
daughters Delphi, Elizabeth and Fildah,
backed by Gallo Records, brought a lawsuit
against Walt Disney for using his song
Mbube in The Lion King movie and stage
musical without paying royalties to them.
The lawsuit was finally settled in February
2006 with Linda's daughters receiving an
undisclosed amount.
https://sahistory.org.za
CELEBRATING THE LEGACY OF SOLOMON LINDA
This year’s focus was on South Africa’s indigenous music, which has played an integral
role during the struggle for democracy and freedom.
In 2000, a South African journalist, Rian Malan, wrote a feature article for
Rolling Stone Magazine that told the story of Solomon Linda. Malan estimated
that his song Mbube had earned an estimated 15 million
American dollars for its use in The Lion King alone.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
60 61
threat has been there from the very
beginning: visibility and relevance.
Or rather, how a South African university
press can make itself visible and demonstrate
its relevance to often indifferent and highly
competitive international markets.
The press has actively explored co-
publishing and distribution agreements in
North America and Europe.
The West continues to dominate published
scholarship about Africa. The solution is
more visible research from Africa. Wits
University Press has long been part of this
solution.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
By Beth le Roux
Associate Professor, Publishing, University of Pretoria
The early history
Colonial South Africa became a union with a
white minority government in 1910.
Wits University Press was established in
1922, the same year as its parent institution,
the University of the Witwatersrand.
The decision reflects how the university
wanted to be perceived – as a new centre
of learning and research that could, with
time, stand on par with colonial models.
(Melbourne University may have been
thinking the same, establishing the oldest
university press in Australia in the same
year.)
The first title, Economics Professor Robert
Lehfeldt’s The National Resources of South
Africa, exemplifies the mission: that research
by eminent local academics on South Africa
could be conducted, and published, in that
country.
The books that followed seem to bear
out this early belief that a South African
university press could make a mark if it
focussed on local expertise. Titles ranged
from South African drawings, to drumming,
to the citrus industry.
The publishing list was inevitably affected
by a shifting political context, and also often
shaped by idiosyncratic individual interests
or university priorities.
The key focus of publications for the first
decades was the so-called “native question”
and race relations.
For instance, a founder member of the Wits
University Press publications committee,
JD Rheinallt Jones, was an advocate for
social reform who set up the South African
Institute of Race Relations.
Leading social scientists published some
of their most important research through the
press, including Desmond Cole and Phillip
Tobias.
I
n the past months, my email has served
up two contrasting examples of the
state of scholarly publishing in African
countries. The one was an invitation to
celebrate the centenary of South Africa’s
Wits University Press. The other, an
academic report on the demise of Nigerian
university presses.
Between these two extremes, there are
only a few functioning African university
presses in 2022 – a recent survey found only
15 active presses out of 52 that claim to still
be working.
The situation is similar in other universities
in the global South, such as in India and Latin
America, where most university presses
function as printers rather than publishers.
All the more reason, then, to celebrate the
longevity – and significance – of a publisher
like Wits University Press.
Active scholarly publishers are important
because they provide a platform for research
originating in a specific region.
Scholars from the global South often go
unheard and unseen, even in scholarship
that focusses on their own countries and
areas of expertise.
As Mary Jay of the African Book Collective
notes: “You can take a degree in African
Studies without reading a single book
published in Africa.”
Local university presses are the main
channel for such scholars to participate in
broader debates and conversations, through
books and journals.
If this sounds like a political justification for
university presses, it is. Politics has always
influenced scholarly publishing: who sets up
a press, who provides the funding, and who
gets published.
The history of a publisher like Wits
University Press is influenced by politics as
much as by intellectual traditions.
A SOUTH AFRICAN UNIVERSITY PUBLISHER MAKES IT TO 100
Wits University Press now attracts leading local academics
with an emphasis on the social sciences and humanities
rather than the natural sciences of the earliest days.
A South AfricAn
univerSity publiSher
mAkeS it to 100.
A rare And importAnt event
A SOUTH AFRICAN UNIVERSITY PUBLISHER MAKES IT TO 100
Apartheid and censorship
Apartheid policies began to be entrenched
by the white minority government from 1948
with harsh race laws segregating South
African society, and controlling the circulation
of information. The usual author profile at
Wits University Press was, needless to say,
white and male.
Exceptional black authors include the
Reverend John Henderson Soga in 1930,
and the range of writers published through
the flagship
Bantu Treasury Series  launched
by the press. This and the journal Bantu
Studies (now African Studies), was the
brainchild of Clement Doke of the university’s
Department of Bantu Studies.
His collaboration and friendship with
Benedict Wallet Vilakazi, the first black
academic at Wits, provided a fertile base for
a publishing list in linguistics, dictionaries,
ethnography and literature. In more difficult
times, the
Bantu Treasury Series  would
keep the press afloat. Titles began to be
prescribed for Bantu Education schools and
teacher training colleges from the 1950s,
and the large orders were the main source of
income for at least two decades.
As censorship was more heavily enforced
from the 1960s, the more radical and well-
known South African authors tended to
publish abroad. There was a widespread
perception that university presses would not
take a chance on controversial texts, and
could not assure an author of widespread
distribution and readership.
It is true that Wits University Press was
not a political publisher – some of its most
enduring titles include Trees and Shrubs of
the Witwatersrand (1964) and South African
Frogs: A Complete Guide (1979). But, from
the 1970s, state repression could no longer
be ignored and the Wits University Press’
publishing list increasingly featured studies
of trade unions, labour and law, which served
as proxies for overtly political books. Within
a decade, the press could describe itself
accurately as a “progressive publisher for a
new South Africa”.
What still needs to be done
Wits University Press now attracts leading
local academics with an emphasis on the
social sciences and humanities rather than
the natural sciences of the earliest days.
The huge expansion in both the numbers
and profile of academics in South Africa is
reflected in stricter peer review and selection
policies, rather than an unsustainable rise in
titles.
And the current concern of most university
presses – technological developments that
have changed publishing processes and
formats – has been embraced. However,
inequalities remain.
Will Wits University Press make it for
another 100 years? The greatest ongoing
The West continues to dominate published scholarship
about Africa. The solution is more visible research from
Africa. Wits University Press has long been
part of this solution.
Leading social scientists
published some of their
most important research
through the press,
including Desmond Cole
and Phillip Tobias.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
62 63
By Lindiwe Sisulu
Minister of Tourism
T
he tourism sector has done
incredibly well in the first
half of 2022 and has made
significant strides towards
recovery.
South Africa is optimistic
about its tourism prospects, following the
total rescinding of the COVID-19 restrictive
regulations and lockdowns in June 2022.
We are poised for a tremendous bounce
back and positive growth, as a sector. Our
mood is buoyant because we know the
resilient nature of our people who drive the
tourism industry.
I want to recognise the enormous support
from the tourism sector itself and pay tribute
to the various service providers in the tourism
value chain, from our trade partners, car
guards, taxi drivers, petrol attendants, tourism
guides, restaurateurs and hoteliers and all our
diligent operators.
The tourism sector can only thrive with their
unequivocal support at work.
Domestic performance
The biggest driver of domestic travel in the
first six months of 2022 was the easing of
COVID-19 travel restrictions.
In the first quarter of 2021, South Africa was
on adjusted alert level 3, with the closure of
beaches, including other restrictions, which
impacted the movement and gathering of
people.
The ease and removal of travel bans have
released a pent-up demand for travel locally
and across provinces, to beaches and the
mountains, connecting with family and friends
and socialising.
The total arrivals for January to June 2022
were 2 285 746 – a 147% increase from
January to June 2021.
The biggest market in terms of absolute
numbers was the African land markets; these
showed a 109% increase in arrivals compared
to the same period in 2021. The Africa air
markets brought in 1 634 244 arrivals.
So far in 2022, Zimbabwe accounted for
most arrivals to South Africa. Mozambique
tailed closely in second place, shadowed
by Lesotho in third place. Arrivals from the
Americas increased by 331% and represented
128 991 arrivals. Europe had the most
considerable percentage increase in arrivals of
563%. The total number of European arrivals
from January to June 2022 was 356 352.
Nevertheless, African land arrivals still
account for the bulk of arrivals to South Africa.
Europe is the second-biggest region for arrivals
this year, followed by the Americas.
The top countries that drove growth between
January and June 2021 and 2022 were
Lesotho, Mozambique and the United Kingdom
(UK). The UK was the largest overseas market,
followed by the United States of America (USA)
and Germany. In other words, the region that
drove the growth in arrivals between 2021 and
2022 was predominantly African land.
Looking ahead
The future for our tourism and hospitality
sector looks even brighter. In August 2022,
forward bookings increased by 328%
(85 960). Between August to October, there
was an impressive 287% (187 667) increase
in bookings. Between August to January
2023, there was a 227% (294 220) increase
Between January and June 2022, 15.2 million
domestic trips were taken. This is a major win
for the tourism sector, as this is higher than pre-
pandemic levels, indicating that South Africa’s
domestic tourism sector also experienced the
revenge travel trend. Furthermore, the share
of holiday trips increased by 23.8% compared
with the same period in 2021.
Additionally, the average spend per trip
increased by 28.6%, meaning South Africans
saved their travel money during lockdown
travel restrictions to take that one trip they have
been looking forward to for almost two years.
On average, South Africans spend R2 850
on their domestic trips. Many of the small
tourism businesses that struggled during the
travel restrictions benefitted from this direct
spend.
I am grateful to all those in the tourism and
greater hospitality sector who kept their doors
open and to ordinary South Africans who came
out to support local tourism.
International performance
International arrivals are still 54% below 2019
levels. Yet, there was a steady improvement
from January to June 2022.
In the first half of the year, Europe was
the best-performing region, despite security
concerns mounting due to the conflict in
Ukraine.
The Americas were the second-best
performing region. This market is slowly
making its way back to pre-pandemic levels,
performing at minus 40% below 2019 levels.
Recovery in Asia and the Pacific is much
slower, due to border closures and strict travel
policies.
TOURISM SECTOR IS MAKING SIGNIFICANT STRIDES TOWARDS RECOVERY
in bookings. This is a new emerging trend, as
we are seeing that international tourists are
now booking further in advance for their future
travel.
For August to January 2023, the UK had by
far the most forward bookings. The USA was in
second place and Germany in third.
Global seat capacity on the rise
We are also seeing a steady increase in global
seat capacity. Air capacity makes up just 61%
of the 2019 levels, with Airlink as the largest
airline, which has seen fares up by 7%. Only
Qatar saw prices dip below pre-pandemic
levels and below 2021 among the top airlines.
On international routes, 75% of seat capacity
in South Africa is on the Johannesburg routes.
Seat capacity on the routes to Johannesburg
grew 71% over 2021 with Qatar being the
largest source route. Cape Town has 1.2
million seats with Emirates Airways being the
largest route. Durban-King Shaka International
Airport, which has 4% of all seats, saw a 150%
growth from 2021.
The Durban routes grew with Emirates seats
up over 400% and was the most extensive
route in the region.
The Kruger route has seen 23 100 seats
in 2022 and has less than 1% of all seats on
international routes. The two airlines active on
the Kruger route are Lufthansa from Frankfurt
and Airlink from Livingstone.
Emirates
During a four-day working visit to the Dubai
EXPO from 12 to 16 December 2021, we held
bilateral engagements with potential investors,
members of the trade that sell South Africa
to the world as well as airline executives.
His Highness, Sheik Ahmed Bin Saeed Al
Maktoum, indicated during his engagement
with us that Emirates’ long-term plan was to
grow the tourism business and position the
United Arab Emirates as a destination rather
than being a hub dependent on passenger
transit.
South Africa has a code sharing agreement
with the Emirates, which gives the airline
access to South Africa’s domestic routes while
Emirates promotes South Africa on its airline’s
Global Network.
We have since signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with Emirates to grow
the tourism market in South Africa.
We view our collaboration with Emirates as
critical in supporting our turnaround strategy
and rebuilding trust in travel to the global South
and we expect this will boost visitor arrivals.
It will promote tourism and inbound traffic
to South Africa from key markets across the
Emirates network.
Qatar
We are also working on an MoU with Qatar,
which will be hosting the World Cup this year
to consider us a hub for the World Cup. The
Middle East is a critical market for South
Africa, so this collaboration will be instrumental
in ensuring ease of access to and from South
Africa for travellers from this region and will
assist us in elevating our trade efforts.
Africa's Travel Indaba
South Africa held a successful Travel Indaba
from 2 to 5 May 2022 and this provided the
necessary springboard for the continent to
achieve even greater levels of recovery.
Over 600 buyers participated in the Indaba,
who came from various parts of the world to
come to experience the diverse, authentically
African products and experiences that our
continent has on offer.
We thank these buyers as they are valued
partners in helping to package Africa as
an attractive tourism destination to various
travellers from across the world.
We are confident that a lot of mutually
beneficial business deals will be borne out of
Africa’s Travel Indaba.
There is renewed hope on the horizon. Our
visitors are responding positively to all come
to South Africa and “Live Again”. The tourist
numbers reaffirm faith in our unique tourism
products.
As a destination of choice for 15 million
visitors annually, we can safely say we
guarantee happiness for all. South Africa
offers perfect leisure and pleasure tourism
experiences.
No other tourism destination offers our
people warmth and legendary smiles coupled
with clear skies and bright sun rays.
South Africa offers perfect leisure and pleasure tourism
experiences. No other tourism destination offers our
people warmth and legendary smiles coupled with
clear skies and bright sun rays.
There is renewed hope on the horizon. Our visitors are responding positively to all come
to South Africa and “Live Again”. The tourist numbers reaffirm faith in our unique tourism
products.
TOURISM SECTOR
IS MAKING SIGNIFICANT STRIDES
TOWARDS RECOVERY
TOURISM SECTOR IS MAKING SIGNIFICANT STRIDES TOWARDS RECOVERY

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
64 65

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
66 67
T
he African Continental
Free Trade Area came
into operation on
1 January 2021. This is a
considerable achievement.
The free trade area is
now the world’s single largest market for
goods and services, when measured by
number of countries, after the World Trade
Organisation. It is also the largest in terms
of geographic area and population size.
If implemented as foreseen by the
agreement, the free trade area will unlock
significant growth for the African continent.
The World Bank has estimated that by
2035, trade between African countries
could expand by 81%, boosting output
by US$450 billion, raising wages by 10%,
particularly benefitting women, and lifting
30 million people out of extreme poverty.
These expectations, based on research
into the links between trade and economic
growth, have generated excitement and
political impetus around getting the free
trade area working.
Less well understood, however, is
the fact that for the agreement to fulfil
its promises, the continent’s cities are
key. They are hubs for production and
consumption and will become significantly
more so.
But their current set-up, lacking the
necessary infrastructure and services,
means most of Africa’s cities are not yet
ready to benefit from and support the free
trade area. This will require substantially
greater investments in the continent’s
cities.
This link between urbanisation and trade
is analysed in the United Nations (UN)
Economic Commission for Africa’s recently
launched publication,
Cities: Gateways for
Africa‘s Regional Economic Integration.
What cities bring to the party
The importance of cities in unlocking the
benefits of the free trade area is premised
on three well-established advantages
of the economic density that cities can
provide.
Firstly, firms, which are the primary
vehicles for producing goods for export,
prefer to be in cities.
There, they are closer to a larger pool of
labour and to each other. This proximity
enables them to specialise but still have
access to inputs for their production
processes from other firms. They can
also learn from each other, which spurs
innovation.
Secondly, cities are the physical locations
from which most trade takes place. Cities
provide the main transport links, including
road junctions, ports and airports.
Think of the Port of Mombasa, which
serves not only Kenya, but also Burundi,
the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Ethiopia, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan,
Tanzania and Uganda. It is also difficult to
think of a major city that is not served by
an airport.
Cities also provide their own internal
markets. Rapid urbanisation, with an
estimated 900 million people set to enter
African cities in the next 30 years, creates
a large upcoming consumer pool. This is
the third advantage of density.
Particularly on the African context, it is
not only the number of consumers that will
make the difference.
AFRICA’S FREE TRADE AREA
oFFERS pRomISE FoR CITIES –
buT only IF ThERE’S InvESTmEnT
By Astrid RN Haas
Fellow, Infrastructure Institute, School of Cities, University of Toronto
As evidence shows, when people move to
cities, their diets change as well.
For example, there is a greater demand
for goods with higher value addition, such
as refined grains and processed foods.
This is an opportunity for Africa’s farmers
to gain, too, as this value addition will fetch
a higher price.
Not yet fit for purpose
Substantial investments in infrastructure
are needed for cities to be able to unlock
the benefits of the free trade area.
Most notable is the paucity of paved
roads. Currently, only an estimated
800 000 km out of 2.8 million km of the
continent’s roads are paved.
This statistic is critical because an
estimated 80% to 90% of African trade
takes place by road. This raises the costs
of African trade.
For example, while it costs about
US$2 000 to ship a container from China
to the port in Beira, Mozambique, it costs
more than double that amount, namely
US$5 000, to move it 500 km further inland
to Malawi.
This lack of infrastructure is a hindrance
in cities too.
In particular, according to the UN
Economic Commission for Africa report,
the cities that should drive the largest
portion of trade and reap relatively larger
benefits from the free trade agreement’s
provisions are small to medium size ones,
especially those located close to borders.
These are also the cities that have had
comparatively less investment to date.
Without basic infrastructure, they will not
attract firms – the drivers of production,
value addition and export. Whatever
happens in implementing the free trade
area, rapid urbanisation will continue
across Africa. Consumption preferences of
the continent’s population will shift.
If African firms can’t meet these
demands, imports from other regions of the
world will do so.
Under this scenario, other countries will
disproportionately gain from Africa’s new
urban consumer population.
Investing in cities
The current political support for the free
trade agreement is significant, with all but
one African country having signed the deal
and 43 countries already having ratified it.
Harnessing the combined effect of trade
and urbanisation could positively transform
the African continent’s economy.
This will require not only the signing of
policies but their implementation.
To date, only Egypt, Ghana and South
Africa have readjusted their national
regimes to implement the customs rules
under the agreement.
Well-managed urbanisation is still not
a primary policy focus in many countries.
The result is that populations are settling
in cities quicker than planning and
investments are happening.
Rather than benefitting from well-
managed density, major African cities are
characterised by the proliferation of slums
and congestion. On top of this, substandard
infrastructure is deterring large firms.
Each of these challenges has its own
host of policy reforms, programmes and
actions that need to be taken.
But to unleash the combined benefits of
trade and urbanisation, it will be important
to build on the political momentum that the
free trade agreement has set in motion.
This will ensure that national legislation
is centred on the agreement’s impacts on
cities, and on the needs of cities.
Similarly, in planning for urbanisation,
particularly intermediary and border towns,
investments should focus on unleashing
their comparative advantages in relation to
the free trade agreement.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
AFRICA’S FREE TRADE AREA OFFERS PROMISE FOR CITIES – BUT ONLY IF THERE’S INVESTMENT  AFRICA’S FREE TRADE AREA OFFERS PROMISE FOR CITIES – BUT ONLY IF THERE’S INVESTMENT
Substantial investments in infrastructure are needed for cities to be able to unlock the
benefits of the free trade area.
The current political support for the free trade agreement is significant,
with all but one African country having signed the deal and 43 countries
already having ratified it. Harnessing the combined effect of trade and
urbanisation could positively transform the African continent’s economy.
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  66 67
 | FEATUREFEATURE |

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
68 69
T
he COVID-19 pandemic
spread much slower on the
African continent than in the
rest of the world, contrary to
predictions.
As of 20 July 2022, a total
of 562 672 324 COVID-19 confirmed cases
and 6 367 793 deaths had been recorded
globally. Only 1.63% (9 176 657) of the global
cases and 2.73% (173 888) of global deaths
recorded were from the African continent
– which has around 17% of the world’s
population.
Multiple reasons for the slower spread have
been put forward. One was that the continent’s
population is relatively young and younger
people were at lower risk of severe illness
in the event of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The
possible contribution of pre-existing immunity
from other viral infections was also put forward.
And it was suggested that the slower spread
might not be the real picture: there could be an
underestimation of the true magnitude of the
pandemic, resulting from weak surveillance
systems.
There is another aspect to consider, though.
It is possible that what countries did to slow
the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infections actually
worked to some extent. Diverse sectors and
disciplines collaborated towards the shared
goal of mitigating the pandemic effects.
In our recent study, we traced policies
retrospectively and related them to patterns
of the disease. We set out to understand
how the 47 countries forming the World
Health Organisation (WHO) African region
coordinated the response to COVID-19 – and
what we could learn from their strategies.
By coordination, we mean management to
ensure unity of effort. Our analysis showed
that decentralisation strategies and innovation
played key roles in coordination. Financing
was a challenge to coordination.
Three levels of coordination
All 47 countries in the WHO African region
instituted three distinct layered coordination
mechanisms: strategic, operational and
tactical.
Most (41) countries implemented strategic
coordination. This means that the highest
authority in government or a designated
authority oversaw the overall response.
One example is the strong leadership by
the President of Seychelles, who is also the
Minister of Health. Another is the National
Disaster Risk Management Council led by the
Deputy Prime Minister’s Office in Ethiopia.
The second layer was operational
coordination. This refers to the provision of day-
to-day technical and operational support to the
in-country response team. It was implemented
by 28 countries and led by experts in public
health emergency operations centres. An
example is the Public Health Emergency
Operations that provided the operational level
leadership in Côte d'Ivoire under the General
Director of Health.
The third layer was tactical coordination.
This is decentralised coordination at local
levels (such as districts, states or counties),
and was implemented by 14 countries. For
instance, existing district surveillance teams
were immediately called into play to respond to
the virus in their jurisdictions in Uganda.
The coordination mechanisms and levels
of preparedness may not have been strong
enough in the first wave of infections. Every
country was trying to do a lot within a short
period. Many countries were piloting to see
what worked and what did not.
Nonetheless, the combined three
coordination mechanisms may have been a
key to slowing the spread of the initial wave of
the pandemic and the length of the subsequent
waves. Our study findings showed that the
length of the second wave was shortened by
an average of 69.73 days among countries that
combined all three coordination mechanisms in
tandem compared to those that only combined
the strategic and tactical.
Governments applied what they learnt on
the go. For instance, Senegal made use of
treatment regimens that seemed promising
and collaborated with private partners to use
a diagnostic test for COVID-19 that could be
done at home.
Implications
Our analysis points to several lessons about
preparing for and responding to health
emergencies.
Engage different players. Countries have
to empower players like government officials,
technocrats, expert advisers, development
partners, United Nations agencies and private
companies. Governments also need to invest
in the technical expertise that can coordinate
the multiple elements of a pandemic. These
elements include logistics, fund-raising,
management, healthcare data collection and
analysis.
Organise emergency financing. Setting
aside an emergency funding pot will reduce
reliance on development partners.
hoW AFRICAn CounTRIES CooRDInATED
ThE RESponSE To CovID-19:
lESSonS FoR publIC hEAlTh
By Boniface Oyugi
Health Policy and Health Economics Researcher and Honorary Researcher at the Centre for Health Services Studies,
University of Kent
Over-reliance on partners slowed down the
coordination of the response in most countries.
A transparent institutional framework that is
accountable for the funds is useful too.
Invest in a decentralised emergency
response. Countries that decentralised their
emergency response to the subnational levels
(or districts or grassroots) were able to slow
community transmission.
For instance, using provincial incident
management teams in South Africa or existing
district surveillance teams and district task
forces in Uganda left the central government to
focus on strategy development and resource
mobilisation.
Botswana built upon existing community
health platforms that had been strengthened
over many years through PEPFAR (United
States President’s Emergency Plan for
AIDS Relief) investments to combat the HIV
epidemic.
This helped in contact tracing and helped
health workers to manage COVID-19 cases as
there were few cases in hospitals.
For all these decentralised strategies to
work, countries must have a strong political
commitment to provide the required health
resources and facilities. They also need a
well-coordinated information flow from the
centre to the periphery. Information is essential
for enhancing the accountability of response
actions and tackling misinformation. Besides,
it allows communities to be part of the solution.
Keep building on projects and innovations.
Building on existing structures used during
previous emergencies, such as the Ebola
outbreak in Sierra Leone, made it easier to
activate the response.
Countries should also develop and use
new and adapted technologies. For example,
Rwanda used drones to share public
information.
In Ghana, robots were used for screening and
inpatient care. Liberia used a communication
platform called mHero to connect the Ministry
of Health and health workers. Niger used an
app called Alerte COVID-19. Today’s tech-for-
health innovations tailored to the pandemic
response can be adapted for broader use
in future. Organised and well-directed
coordination mechanisms provide a structured
pandemic management plan or outline of
purposeful actions.
Having a collaborative approach involving
different stakeholders is essential for future
emergencies.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
HOW AFRICAN COUNTRIES COORDINATED THE RESPONSE TO COVID-19 HOW AFRICAN COUNTRIES COORDINATED THE RESPONSE TO COVID-19
Organised and well-directed coordination mechanisms provide a structured pandemic
management plan or outline of purposeful actions. Having a collaborative approach
involving different stakeholders is essential for future emergencies.
Setting aside an emergency funding pot will reduce reliance on
development partners. Over-reliance on partners slowed down the
coordination of the response in most countries.
A transparent institutional framework that is accountable
for the funds is useful too.
Keep building on projects
and innovations. Building
on existing structures
used during previous
emergencies, such as the
Ebola outbreak in Sierra
Leone, made it easier to
activate the response.

| FEATURE
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
71
S
cientific breakthroughs can
happen in the strangest
ways and places. Alexander
Fleming discovered
penicillin because of mould
growing on a Petri dish left
out while he was on holiday.
Chinese monks in the 9th century wanted
to make a potion for immortality: instead, they
discovered gunpowder.
Our own remarkable discovery happened
on a rugged, remote stretch of coastline east
of Still Bay on South Africa’s Cape south coast.
It was low tide, and three members of our
ichnology team (people who study tracks
and traces) were in search of newly exposed
Pleistocene vertebrate tracksites in aeolianites
(cemented dunes).
Ahead we saw a large rock that had tumbled
down from the cliffs above. On its surface was
a pattern of linear groove features in a large
triangular shape, complete with an almost
perfect bisecting groove.
The sides of the triangle were close to a
metre in length.
After extensive research, we concluded
that these grooves must have been made on
a dune surface of unconsolidated sand by our
human ancestors in the Middle Stone Age.
The patterns are likely between 143 000 and
91 000 years old.
It was an important find in a significant place.
Multiple lines of evidence on this coastline
indicate that it’s an area where our distant
ancestors became truly modern, using fire
as an engineering tool and creating abstract
images.
But there was a problem. On a follow-up
visit, we found a smaller rock close by with a
similar triangular feature. Subsequently, it was
destroyed, likely by storm surges or high tides
buffetting and overturning it. We knew that the
larger rock inevitably awaited a similar fate if
we did nothing. From our perspective this is
one of the most important rocks in the world:
it takes us back to our roots as a species
and indicates the kind of “proto-art” we were
capable of creating so long ago.
So, we staged an unusual mission: a
“rescue” operation designed to get the
approximately 500-kilogram rock to safety – in
a museum.
A coordinated mission
Given the rock’s size and weight, there was
only one way to remove it: with a helicopter,
a skilled pilot, and a strong net attached to a
long-line cable.
Our research team accumulated funding
through our paid contributions to a book
project. That money went towards hiring a
private helicopter and pilot, as well as getting
a ground crew in place on the day. We also
obtained approval from the owner of the
private land on which the rock was located.
We also needed a permit from the provincial
heritage authority to proceed because the rock
is a precious heritage item.
It was a nerve-racking process. The rock
might have been broken as it was being lifted
from its cliffside spot or might have fallen
into the sea. But 29 September 2022 – what
we’d dubbed Recovery Day – went smoothly.
The ground crew and the helicopter pilot co-
operated superbly.
Minutes after being lifted out of the remote
location, the rock was safely on a pallet on a
truck at the local airfield. From there, it began a
very cautious journey to the Blombos Museum
of Archaeology in nearby Still Bay.
Here, it was lifted and gently manoeuvred
into place by a dozen volunteers. The rock
has subsequently been encased and placed
on exhibit, with interpretive text panels. It joins
similar exhibits in the museum; the grooves
were an example of an ammoglyph, a term we
had coined to describe a pattern created by
humans in sand that is now evident in rock that
has become cemented and then re-exposed.
Ascribing meaning to these geometric
patterns made so long ago by our distant
ancestors is not within our field of expertise.
Still, we could not help but notice the
resemblance of the triangular shape to a
purported fertility symbol found in France and
dated to around 38 000 years.
Should the pattern on our rock represent the
same motif, it would not be the first time that
southern African discoveries had pushed back
in time what has been viewed as an Upper
Palaeolithic Eurasian phenomenon.
Our research team now sleeps better at
night, knowing that this priceless piece of our
human heritage has been recovered and is
available for others to see, appreciate and
critique.
More to discover
Happily, there was an unexpected bonus.
Beside the eroded remains of the second rock,
our ground crew noted a third rock surface,
which had not been evident previously.
Near one edge it contained a distinct pair of
grooves that met at an angle of 69 degrees,
forming what may have been part of another
triangular feature.
This is clearly an area we will return to
repeatedly, in the hope that tidal forces may
turn over other rocks before destroying them
and may give us an opportunity to glimpse –
and perhaps recover – more ammoglyphs.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
RoCK STARS: hoW A GRoup oF
SCIEnTISTS In SouTh AFRICA RESCuED
A RARE ChunK oF humAn hISToRy
By Charles Helm
Research Associate, African Centre for Coastal Palaeoscience, Nelson Mandela University (NMU), and
Jan Carlo De Vynck
Director and Research Fellow, African Centre for Coastal Palaeoscience, NMU
ROCK STARS: HOW A GROUP OF SCIENTISTS IN SA RESCUED A RARE CHUNK OF HUMAN HISTORY ROCK STARS: HOW A GROUP OF SCIENTISTS IN SA RESCUED A RARE CHUNK OF HUMAN HISTORY
Given the rock’s size and weight, there was only one way to remove it: with a helicopter,
a skilled pilot, and a strong net attached to a long-line cable.
FEATURE |

| FEATURE
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
73
Snowcapped mountains in the Du Toitskloof Pass in the Western Cape

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
74 75
AFRICA IS A TREASURE TROVE OF MEDICIAL PLANTS: HERE ARE SEVEN THAT ARE POPULAR
AFRICA IS A TREASURE TROVE OF MEDICINAL PLANTS:
HERE ARE SEVEN THAT ARE POPULAR
By Adeyemi Oladapo Aremu, Associate Professor, North-West University, and
Nox Makunga, Associate Professor: Medicinal Plant Biotechnology, Stellenbosch University
AFRICA IS A TREASURE TROVE OF MEDICIAL PLANTS: HERE ARE SEVEN THAT ARE POPULAR
Africa is endowed with up to 45 000 plant species – about 25% of the world’s plant
genetic resources. More than 5 000 plant species from this enormous African resource
are used in traditional medicines.
P
lants have directly contributed
to the development of
important drugs. The
anti-malarial treatment
artemisinin, pain medication
morphine, and cancer
chemotherapy, taxol, are just three examples
of drugs derived from plants. Africa is endowed
with up to 45 000 plant species – about 25% of
the world’s plant genetic resources. More than
5 000 plant species from this enormous African
resource are used in traditional medicines.
Medicinal plant specialists Associate Professor
Adeyemi Aremu and Professor Nox Makunga
highlight some of these plants.
Artemisia afra Jacq. ex Willd. (African
wormwood)
Artemisia afra is the only species in its genus
that is indigenous to the African continent.
It’s often regarded as a potential flagship
plant because of its high popularity and diverse
uses in African traditional medicine. African
wormwood has been used for coughs, colds,
influenza and malaria.
Scientific evidence of its antimicrobial, anti-
depressant, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
effects has been reported. African wormwood
gained global interest when it was promoted
as having potential to treat COVID-19 and
was tested in laboratory studies. The extracts
had some degree of inhibitory activity against
Feline Coronavirus and SARS-CoV-2. But this
requires further clinical study to reach a valid
conclusion.The traditional uses and increasing
popularity of African wormwood have resulted
in a number of commercial herbal products.
But with insufficient clinical data, it’s not
yet known whether African wormwood is a
treasure chest of new drugs.
Catharanthus roseus (L.) G.Don
This plant is also known as bright eyes, Cape
periwinkle, graveyard plant, Madagascar
periwinkle, old maid or pink periwinkle. It is
native and endemic to Madagascar.
The plant is commonly used as a tonic
and emetic for the treatment of many health
conditions, including rheumatism, diabetes
and skin-related and venereal diseases.
Pink periwinkle has several phytochemicals,
which are associated with antioxidant,
antimicrobial, antidiabetic and anticancer
properties. Alkaloids remain one of the
signature. Two of its alkaloids, vincristine and
vinblastine, have been extensively explored
by the pharmaceutical industry. These two
alkaloids were the first plant-derived anticancer
agents deployed for clinical use.
Griffonia simplicifolia (DC.) Baill. (Griffonia,
Atooto, gbogbotri, kajya, kanya, kwakuo-
aboto)
Griffonia simplicifolia is a woody climbing
shrub. It is native to west and central African
countries, including Benin, Cameroon, Côte
d'Ivoire, Gabon, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and
Togo.
In African traditional medicine, the seeds
are reputed to exert several medicinal effects
and have been explored as an aphrodisiac,
and a remedy for diarrhoea, stomach ache
and dysentery. The plant’s chemical properties
have been studied extensively.
It has been found to contain rich
phytochemicals with enormous pharmaceutical
value. Particularly, the seeds are known as an
excellent source of 5-hydroxy-L-tryptophan
(commercially called oxitriptan), which the
body uses to produce serotonin. Serotonin is
a neurotransmitter, which is known to affect
sleep, appetite, pain and mood. It plays an
important role in treating depression, insomnia,
obesity and related health conditions,
especially those associated with mental health.
The seed of
Griffonia simplicifolia remains
one of the most reliable and abundant sources.
Commercial interest has increased over the
years.
Based on recent estimates, the market value
for annual bulk seed extract for the plant is
between US$32 million and US$100 million
and demand is expected to grow at 7% per
year.
Sceletium tortuosum (L.) N.E.Br. (Kanna,
kougoed)
Kanna is an endemic South African succulent.
It is sparsely distributed in semi-arid areas
and used for conditions relating to stress,
depression, pain and anxiety.
Mesembrine-type alkaloids are dominant and
typically responsible for the pharmacological
effects exerted by kanna as a psychoactive
plant and mood stimulant. Zembrin® has been
developed as a standardised extract of the
plant.
It’s used as a dietary supplement with the
potential to elevate mood, relieve stress and
improve cognition.
The use of this species stems from the
traditions of the Khoekhoe and San. Many
other medicinal uses have been reported
for this species as it can be used to treat
headaches, abdominal pains and respiratory
ailments. Trimesemine™ (a commercially
available extract high in concentrations of
mesembrine) has been shown to act as a
monoamine releaser, by increasing serotonin,
a chemical messenger that is produced by the
body that is also known to regulate the mood.
It is potentially useful for attention deficit and
other central nervous system disorders such
as Alzheimer’s disease.
Strophanthus gratus (Wall.and Hook.) Baill.
(Climbing oleander)
Strophanthus gratus, a vigorous evergreen
climbing shrub, occurs in tropical regions
from Senegal to the Democratic Republic
of Congo. In traditional medicine, climbing
oleander has been used to treat snake bites,
Artemisia afra Jacq. ex Willd. (African wormwood)
Catharanthus roseus (L.) G.Don
Griffonia simplicifolia (DC.) Baill. (Griffonia, Atooto, gbogbotri, kajya, kanya, kwakuo-aboto)

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
76 77
AFRICA IS A TREASURE TROVE OF MEDICIAL PLANTS: HERE ARE SEVEN THAT ARE POPULAR AFRICA IS A TREASURE TROVE OF MEDICIAL PLANTS: HERE ARE SEVEN THAT ARE POPULAR
sores, gonorrhoea, constipation and fever. The
root is claimed to be an aphrodisiac. Cardiac
glycosides, which are organic compounds that
increase the output force of the heart, are the
signature compounds in the plant.
Particularly, ouabain has been identified as
the main glycoside, which is dominant in the
seed.
Ouabain, a cardio glycoside, was isolated
because of the way climbing oleander is used
in traditional medicine.
It’s now used as a treatment for heart failure
and arrhythmias or irregular heartbeat. Recent
studies have also found a novel use that can
prove relevant for metastatic prostate cancer.
Pelargonium sidoides DC (African
geranium, South African geranium)
This medicinal geranium, which is indigenous
to South Africa and the Lesotho highlands, has
root tubers that are harvested for medicinal
purposes.
People use these tubers for diarrhoea, colic,
gastritis, tuberculosis, cough, liver disorders,
menstrual complaints, gonorrhoea and many
other medical conditions. Clinical evidence
suggests the effectiveness of extracts prepared
from this species for the management of acute
respiratory tract infections.
These data supports the use of this medicinal
geranium, especially for alleviating symptoms
of acute inflammation of the nasal cavity
and sinuses and the common cold in adults.
Umckaloabo® (EPs® 7630), a standardised
proprietary extract, is one of most successfully
produced plant-derived pharmaceuticals from
this species. A number of clinical studies have
shown it can reduce the symptoms of acute
bronchitis. Over-the-counter medications
(Kaloba and Umcka) made from extracts of
this pelargonium are now sold all over the
world. Linctagon® is a pelargonium-inspired
medication that is prescribed to assist the body
to fight colds and flu by stimulating the immune
system.
Siphonochilus aethiopicus (Schweinf.) B.L.
Burtt (African ginger, Wild ginger)
African ginger is native to western and
southern tropical Africa, where it occurs in
about 30 African countries. This wide range
of distribution likely accounts for its use for a
variety of health conditions.
These include respiratory problems (like
cough and influenza), pain, inflammation and
malaria.
An analysis of the essential oil of the root
and rhizome of African ginger found about 70
compounds in the root and 60 compounds in
the rhizomes.
The bioactive compounds siphonochilone
and eucalyptol found in the roots and rhizomes
have demonstrated potential for treating
asthma and allergic reactions. In a clinical
trial, eucalyptol, which is present in root and
rhizome essential oil, has demonstrated anti-
inflammatory activity in bronchial asthma.
In South Africa, this species is classified
as critically endangered because it has been
over-harvested for traditional medicine.
This species is fast headed towards
extinction in South Africa in the wild. Cultivation
is strongly encouraged for its conservation.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
Strophanthus gratus (Wall.and Hook.) Baill. (Climbing oleander)
Sceletium tortuosum (L.) N.E.Br. (Kanna, kougoed) Siphonochilus aethiopicus (Schweinf.) B.L. Burtt (African ginger, Wild ginger)
Pelargonium sidoides DC (African geranium, South African geranium)

FEATURE |
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
78
litigation against governments that fail to
uphold air quality standards. This is already
taking place in many jurisdictions and is likely
to increase as a result of the resolution.
There are hopes the UNGA declaration will
have the same impact as a 2010 resolution
declaring access to clean water a human right.
“What happened with that resolution is that it
compelled countries to review their legislation
at the national level,” said Hwang.
“What that meant was that water had to be
accessible, it had to be affordable, and it had to
integrate non-discrimination clauses. This has
changed a lot of people’s lives, especially low-
income people,” she added.
Ultimately, the hope is that the recent
UNGA resolution will not only move the
needle on environmental rule of law and the
implementation of multilateral environmental
agreements on air quality but that it will
empower citizens of the world to demand their
right to breathe clean air.
As David Boyd, the UN Special Rapporteur
on Human Rights and the Environment, said,
“Having a right to a healthy environment
changes people’s perspective from begging to
demanding governments to act”.
I
n July 2022, the United Nations General
Assembly (UNGA) passed a historic
resolution declaring access to a healthy
environment a universal human right.
The resolution has been lauded
around the world in recent months,
raising hopes it will prod governments to
tackle a host of long-neglected environmental
problems.
At the top of the list for environmental
campaigners is air pollution, which is
responsible for nearly 10% of all global deaths.
“The resolution will empower people to
claim their rights to a healthy environment,”
said Soo-Young Hwang, a Legal Officer with
the UN Environment Programme (UNEP).
“And the right to breathe clean air is an
integral component of the right to a healthy
environment.”
Hwang made the comments ahead of the
International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies,
which is designed to raise awareness about
the dangers of air pollution.
Precedent-setting
The UNGA resolution, which was passed by
a 161-0 vote on 28 July 2022, is not legally
binding on UN member states. But, its backers
say it will have a profound effect on people’s
understanding of their rights and encourage
states to implement national laws and
regional treaties that safeguard the
environment.
Air pollution is one of the
world’s gravest threats
to public health,
causing an
AFTER LANDMARK UN DECLARATION, HOPE FOR CLEANER AIR AFTER LANDMARK UN DECLARATION, HOPE FOR CLEANER AIR
Ultimately, the hope is that the recent United Nations General Assembly
resolution will not only move the needle on environmental rule of law and the
implementation of multilateral environmental agreements on air quality but that
it will empower citizens of the world to demand
their right to breathe clean air.
estimated seven million people to die
prematurely every year. While air pollution is
a global threat, it is developing countries that
suffer the most due to a reliance on wood and
other solid fuels, like coal, for cooking and
heating. And even within developing countries,
the crisis is felt most acutely by low-income
and marginalised communities.
Air pollution also takes a heavy economic
toll: According the World Bank, in 2019 alone,
it cost the world economy US$8.1 trillion,
equivalent to 6.1% of global gross domestic
product.
Those who have championed the UNGA
resolution say that it will help citizens,
especially the poor, demand better air
quality from governments and multinational
corporations that pollute the environment.
Even before the resolution was
passed, citizens, civil-society groups and
conservationists from Brazil to Indonesia have
increasingly been using rights-based litigation
to demand environmental justice, including the
right to clean air.
In March this year, the High Court of South
Africa recognised the “poor air quality in South
Africa’s Mpumalanga Highveld region as a
breach of residents’ constitutional right to an
environment that is not harmful to their health
and well-being.”
National impact
Renée Gift, a Legal Officer with UNEP, said
the UNGA resolution could push more states
to develop and enforce national outdoor air
quality standards, which she called “integral”
to ensuring clean air.
According to UNEP’s first global assessment
of air pollution legislation in 2021, one-third of
the world’s countries have no legally-mandated
ambient air quality standards. And in many
cases, even when these standards exist,
they are not adhered to.
The recognition of the right
to clean air at the national
level would also
create a strong
basis for
79
 | FEATURE
After landmark
UN declaration,
hope for
cleaner
AIR
By the United Nations Environment Programme
i
Every year, on 7 September, the world
celebrates the International Day of Clean
Air for Blue Skies. The day aims to raise
awareness and facilitate actions to improve
air quality.
It is a global call to find new ways of doing
things, to reduce the amount of air pollution
we cause and ensure that everyone,
everywhere can enjoy their right to breathe
clean air.
The theme of the third annual International
Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, facilitated by
the United Nations Environment Programme,
was “The Air We Share”.

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
80 81
T
he current climate crisis
raises many questions.
Some are forward-looking:
how can this be fixed? Some
look to the recent past: how
did we get here? And some
reach further back into history: are today’s
extreme heat waves, catastrophic droughts
and floods all due to climate change?
Was climate and weather this bad 100 or
a few hundred years ago? For scientists to
answer those last two questions, they need
to consult reliable instrumental weather
records. But these only go back a few
decades for many regions of Africa.
The continent’s longest continuous single
station weather record is that of the South
African Astronomical Observatory in Cape
Clima te Change:
Colonial diaries in south afriCa
are helping sCientists reConstruCt wea ther p a tterns
of the p ast to proteCt against future events
By Stefan Grab
Professor of Historical Climate and Weather, University of the Witwatersrand
Town, starting in 1841. This record shows
that rainfall has gradually declined since
about 1900.
Yet, it also demonstrates that while Cape
Town’s 2015 – 2017 drought was severe,
it was little different from a much earlier
drought (1930 – 1939).
Looking even further back could help to
create a more complete, nuanced picture of
weather and climatic shifts in Cape Town.
But, given the absence of instrumental
weather records prior to the 19th century –
or during times well before human-induced
accelerated global warming – this hasn’t
been possible.
Now, some answers are being provided
by what seems at first glance an unlikely
source: a massive project to photograph
and transcribe daily registers kept by the
Vereenigde Oost Indische Compagnie
(VOC), or Dutch East India Company,
between 1651 and 1795.
All of the trading company’s activity in the
Cape Colony was carefully documented in
the VOC’s daghregisters, its daily registers
or journals. Since 2016, these detailed
records, held by the Cape Town Archives
and Nationaal Archief in The Hague, have
been photographed and digitised by the
non-profit Tracing History Trust. By 2021,
2.5 million words had been transcribed for
the VC Daghregister Project.
As we outlined in a recent research paper,
the digitised records are a treasure trove for
climate scientists.
They represent the longest and oldest
known corporate chronicle of near-
continuous daily weather recording for the
southern hemisphere.
Here’s what we’ve learned from them so
far – and what they may have to teach us
about current and future climate.
Detailed entries
The VOC had a monopoly on shipping trade
between what is today the Netherlands and
southeast Asia through Indian Ocean trade
routes at the end of the 16th century.
By the mid-17th century, the company
realised it needed a permanent
reprovisioning and resting station. Table Bay
at the Cape was deemed the most suitable.
Jan van Riebeeck was then commissioned to
establish the settlement as the first Governor
of the Cape from 1652.
Daily journal entries were written by
trained scribes in a relatively informal style.
The language used was an older version
of modern Dutch of the Netherlands and
Flanders, and also of Afrikaans, which
evolved as a South African language from
such early Dutch.
The register entries detail a wide range
of human activity: trade, politics, diet,
health, diplomacy, religion, governance and
so on. They also contain environmental
observations, such as daily weather
phenomena.
Daily weather observations were written
into the registers in a consistent and
systematic manner. Particular attention was
given to sub-daily wind direction and force,
which was important to shipping.
Other regular observations included
precipitation (rainfall, hail, snow) and
conditions of the sky (cloudiness, visibility).
Extreme events such as violent storms,
gale force winds, exceptionally hot or cold
conditions, flooding and drought were
noted and at times elaborated on with
detail on human, agricultural, infrastructural
and environmental consequences and
responses.
Historical climate extremes
Our initial investigation focussed on the
period 1773 to 1791. We outlined extreme
inter-annual climate variability ranging from
the highest number of annual rain days
on record and flooding in 1787, to severe
drought in 1788.
Temperatures must have also been highly
variable. Even though we do not have
thermometer values, anecdotal accounts
regularly speak of “excessive heat” during
summer and icy winter conditions.
It is clear that society had to cope with
“wild weather” and climate extremes during
historical times.
But, coping mechanisms were not
advanced and so, societal suffering was
often considerable – the weather records
also provide valuable context to notable
historic events such as shipwrecks and
chronic food shortages. This is not the end
of our research; the records hold far more
information from which we can learn about
the Cape’s historical climate and weather.
Our ongoing work aims to extend the climate
chronology back to 1652 and establish the
causes of climate variability and extreme
weather during the 17th and 18th centuries.
If we are better able to identify the drivers of
past climate variability and extreme events, it
will benefit our modelling of projected future
climate scenarios and assist in forecasting
expected short-term (the next few months)
weather conditions.
All the transcriptions of the VC Daghregister
Project will be made available in the public
domain on a website to be hosted by the
Nationaal Archief Nederland.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
CLIMATE CHANGE: COLONIAL DIARIES HELP RECONSTRUCT WEATHER PATTERNS CLIMATE CHANGE: COLONIAL DIARIES HELP RECONSTRUCT WEATHER PATTERNS
The digitised records are a treasure trove for climate scientists. They represent the longest
and oldest known corporate chronicle of near-continuous daily weather recording for the
southern hemisphere.
The continent’s longest continuous single station weather record is that of the South
African Astronomical Observatory in Cape Town, starting in 1841. This record shows
that rainfall has gradually declined since about 1900.
Extreme events such as violent storms, gale force
winds, exceptionally hot or cold conditions, flooding
and drought were noted and at times elaborated on
with detail on human, agricultural, infrastructural and
environmental consequences and responses.
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  80 81

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
82 83
THE WOMAN KING
IS MORE THAN AN ACTION MOVIE –
IT SHINES A LIGHT ON THE WOMEN
WARRIORS OF BENIN
By Dominique Somda
Junior Research Fellow, Institute for Humanities in Africa,
University of Cape Town
THE WOMAN KING IS MORE THAN AN ACTION MOVIE
The action blockbuster is adding to renewed
global interest in the historical women warriors
of Dahomey, a kingdom that flourished in the
1700s and 1800s in what is today Benin in
West Africa.
T
he Woman King is a big-budget
Hollywood movie that has
been anticipated since 2018,
when United States (US) star
Viola Davis was announced
as the lead in the story of the
“amazons” of Dahomey.
Rising South African star Thuso Mbedu
also takes a key role in the film, which has
premiered at the Toronto International Film
Festival and is showing in cinemas worldwide.
The action blockbuster is adding to renewed
global interest in the historical women warriors
of Dahomey, a kingdom that flourished in the
1700s and 1800s in what is today Benin in
West Africa.
The “amazons” were exceptionally skilful
women warriors. They inspired fear and
curiosity among locals and foreigners who
had come to explore and colonise the territory.
Protectors of the king, the anticolonial women
warriors are referred to as Agoodjies in Fon,
one of Benin’s many languages.The Woman
King is not the first time that Dahomey’s
“amazons” have appeared in Hollywood
productions lately.
The mighty warriors were featured in the
popular TV series Lovecraft Country (in an
episode where Hippolyta Freeman, a black
woman in pre-civil rights America, experiences
a triumphant, cosmic journey of liberation).
And there were the Dora Milaje, the
Wakanda warriors in the blockbuster film Black
Panther. Modelled on the Agoodjie, they are
the protectors of Black Panther.
Incarnations like these have helped bring
the warriors of Dahomey into the popular
culture spotlight.
On social media and in reviews, the film
is being celebrated as an example of “fierce”
representations of black womanhood, so
unlike dominant popular culture stereotypes.
But who were these women – and how does
their legacy resonate in Benin today?
A statue is unveiled
A colossal bronze monument called
Amazon
– created by Chinese sculptor Li Xiangqun
– was unveiled in Cotonou in Benin on
30 July, the 62nd anniversary of the country’s
independence from France.
It depicts a young female warrior dressed in
a belted tunic and armed with a shotgun and a
short sword.
Amazon joined two other new monuments
erected as symbols of anticolonial resistance.
The statue follows an exhibition about the
warriors held in Cotonou in 2018 and a new
museum featuring them is expected to open
in 2024 in Abomey, the former royal capital
of the Dahomey kings. The Government of
Benin appears to have tasked them with
the dual responsibility of embodying a new
female power and reviving national pride. The
“amazons” have truly returned.
Who were the warriors?
Much has been written about these legendary
women warriors. The explicit comparison to
the Amazons, a mythological group of female
hunters and soldiers in ancient Greece, was
first made by European men encountering
the Agoodjie in Dahomey in the 1700s. The
“amazon” reference became common by the
mid-1800s.
The female warriors encountered by
explorers and traders in the Fon (Dahomey)
kingdom inspired awe because of their military
prowess and perceived gender-bending.
Dahomey was one of many kingdoms in an
area known as Aja-Yoruba (between present
day Togo and south-west Nigeria).
Its regional dominance spanned the 1700s
and 1800s, when Dahomey went from being
a mere supplier of slaves for the African
kingdoms of Allada and Hueda (Ouidah) – a
prominent port in the transatlantic slave trade
– to becoming the main coastal broker.
The women warriors of Dahomey’s skills
as combatants were admired and feared,
all the more so when they were seen
as transgressively emulating masculine
aggression. They may have been seen as
fighting as males.
Yet, in the royal palace, their positions were
akin to other women – wives, concubines and
enslaved women.
The women warriors were not always
fighting for the independence of their land.
They fought in the various wars that
the kings of Dahomey waged against its
neighbours. They played an important role in
conflicts and raids that led to the enslavement
of many Africans. Cudjo Lewis (formerly known
as Kossula), “the last survivor of the slave
trade in the USA”, recalled, in an interview
with anthropologist and novelist Zora Neale
Hurston, the terrifying attack on his village
and the female warriors that robbed him of his
freedom.
Return of the queen
A real-life queen has, in the past decade, been
restored in both history books and the hearts
of Beninese people. Queen Tassi Hangbé
reigned from 1716 to 1718 and is sometimes
credited as founding the corps.
As a child growing up in Cotonou in the
1980s, I was not as familiar with her as I was
with her twin brother and predecessor, King
Akaba. For a long time, the rule of Hangbé was
presented as a mere regency.
One study explains that she wasn’t even
part of the king’s list (the names of the various
sovereigns of Dahomey) until the 1900s.
Hers is the only female name featured in the
dynasty. Hangbé has a complicated history.
Her erasure was largely due to the efforts
of Agadja, the royal twins’ younger brother and
Hangbé’s successor.
The queen, though, might not have been
a warrior or the founder of the “amazons”.
According to a 1998 study, the institution of
female hunters and warriors probably existed
before the creation of the Dahomey kingdom
in the 1700s.
Historians have advanced the theory that
Hangbé’s twinship with Akaba nonetheless
led to a dualistic organisation of men and
women across the kingdom. Male officers,
for example, had their female counterparts,
displaying an ideal of genders completing one
another to form a whole. Hangbé’s legacy is
now illustrious. The Queen Hangbé Foundation
(Fondation Reine Hangbe) proposes to restore
the twin sister’s place in history and to fight to
end violence against women.
Although the new statue in Cotonou
is rumoured to be inspired by her, the
Government is clear that the new statue
favours no particular kingdom or ethnic group
in Benin. Instead, the monument honours the
resistance against gender-based violence and
is dedicated to past and present Beninese
female fighters.
Benin has also recently passed a few
important laws protecting women and their
reproductive rights.
Disrupting the male order
The Dahomey “amazons” were exceptional,
but heroic women warriors, queens and
princesses leading armies and resisting
colonial expansion existed elsewhere across
the continent, such as Queen Nzinga in Angola
and Queen Nana Yaa Asantewaa in Ghana.
For some African feminists, African women
have never been frail and defenceless.
The feminisation of the spectacle of violence
still presents an exhilarating sense of disruption
in an often male-dominated historical order.
Thanks to the hype around The Woman
King and the conversations it has begun to
ignite, the movie will undoubtedly help to shed
more light on the extraordinary legacies of the
Agoodjies.
Not exotic heroines, mythological figures
or comic book characters, but all-too-real
combatants of West Africa’s “slave coast”.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
i
Star-studded and packed with proud black female talent, The Woman King hit South African shores on 30 September 2022.
The film stars Viola Davis alongside South African talent Thuso Mbedu (Underground Railroad) and No Time to Die star Lashana Lynch and was
directed by the award-winning writer and director of Love and Basketball, Gina Prince-Bythewood.
Other South Africans stars appearing in the film include Sivuyile “Siv” Ngesi, Riaan Visman, Seputla Sebogodi and Kekole Mathabathe. Benin-
born global pop icon Angélique Kidjo also appears in the film as herself.
The action fantasy film is based in a cinematic universe of the Kingdom of Dahomey, one of the most powerful states of Africa in the 18th and
19th centuries. The Woman King was filmed in its entirety in South Africa, particularly in KwaZulu-Natal and Cape Town.
Several important sequences for The Woman King was shot in KwaZulu-Natal, in particular Jozini, a settlement in the Umkhanyakude District
Municipality. Jozini is a small town on the main route to Mozambique, and it is close to the Jozini or Pongolapoort Dam. Lake Jozini, as the dam is
called, has become very popular as a Tiger fishing destination.
The majority of The Woman King was taped across Cape Town, the legislative capital, the oldest city and the second-largest city of South Africa.
The production team travelled across the city to record different sequences against suitable backdrops, including a mine on the outskirts of Cape
Town. The city has hosted the production of many movies and TV shows over the years, such as: Mad Max: Fury Road, Mandela: Long Walk to
Freedom, Safe House, Invictus, Black Sails, Around the World in 80 Days, Blood Diamond and Tomb Raider.
https://thecinemaholic.com
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  82 83
FEATURE | THE WOMEN KING IS MORE THAN AN ACTION MOVIE

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
84 85
Footprints take science a step closer
to understanding southern Africa's dinosaurs
By Miengah Abrahams
Lecturer, University of Cape Town
FOOTPRINTS TAKE SCIENCE A STEP CLOSER TO UNDERTANDING SOUTHERN AFRICA'S DINOSAURS
South Africa and Lesotho’s main Karoo Basin contain plentiful dinosaur fossils in the
rock succession that formed between 220 million and 183 million years ago during
the Late Triassic-Early Jurassic period.
D
inosaurs have captured
people’s imaginations more
than any other ancient
creatures. These reptiles
– some large, some small;
some carnivores and other
herbivores – rose and dominated the world’s
landscapes for more than 135 million years
during a period known as the Mesozoic.
Today, dinosaur fossils can be found in
many parts of the world, contained in rock
successions. These are a series of strata or
rock units in chronological order.
South Africa and Lesotho’s main Karoo
Basin, for example, contain plentiful dinosaur
fossils in the rock succession that formed
between 220 million and 183 million years
ago during the Late Triassic-Early Jurassic
period. These ancient remains include body
fossils (bones) and trace fossils, which are
markings in the ancient sediments in the form
of footprints and burrows in the ground.
Body fossils can assist in recreating the
ancient life forms, understanding what they
looked like, their size, and even how they
grew and evolved. The problem is that intact
body fossils can be rare in some areas. Bone
fragments alone cannot help scientists piece
together the puzzle of ancient life. The traces
of animals offer another avenue of study.
In the main Karoo Basin, bone fossils
of carnivorous dinosaurs called theropods
are incredibly scarce. But their footprints,
preserved in the rocks during the Late Triassic
and Early Jurassic, are abundant.
These fossil footprints are a treasure chest
of information. They can reveal what organism
made the tracks – different animals have
different footprint shapes. They offer clues to
the creature’s behaviour – hopping on two legs
would leave a different footprint pattern than
walking on four. They also provide evidence
about the substrate conditions when the
creature walked, such as whether it sank into
wet sand or was standing firmly on dry gravel.
In a recent study, our team looked at around
200 footprints attributed to theropods across
a time span of about 35 million years. We
wanted to understand how dinosaurs’ feet
changed through time in southern Africa. The
time interval we studied is critical in dinosaur
history because it captures a mass extinction
event and the ancient ecosystems’ subsequent
recovery period.
Our findings reveal that over time, our local
theropods became larger and had a greater
diversity than what the body fossil record could
suggest.
Footprints: A closer inspection
To begin our study, we first looked for
diagnostic clues to tell theropod footprints
apart from the tracks of other ancient animals.
Theropod footprints typically preserve three,
slender toe impressions where the footprint
is longer than it is wide. The middle toe has
a pronounced forward projection. These
footprints also commonly preserve fierce claw
mark impressions.
We know the shape of their feet and how
they moved from reconstructions based on
theropod body fossil material. Scientists have
also learned about these aspects of dinosaurs
by making modern footprints using their closest
living relatives: birds.
Once we identified the theropod footprints
in the field, we quantified their footprint shape
by measuring a set of standard parameters
agreed on by the global dinosaur trace fossil
scientist community.
Based on these measurements across time
and space, we were able to draw conclusions
about theropod foot and body size evolution.
This is possible because there is a direct link
between foot length, and therefore footprint
length, and body size (specifically hip heights
and body lengths).
Our study recorded a 40% increase in the
maximum and average footprint length in
the studied time interval of 35 million years.
Furthermore, we observed that larger bodied
theropods were present, though rare, in the
Late Triassic and that they became even
larger and more common in the Early Jurassic,
during the recovery period following the mass
extinction event. These observations echo
trends recorded elsewhere in the world. We
also observed that through time, theropod
footprints became more prevalent. This may
suggest that the carnivore population thrived
during the recovery period.
This change in abundance might, however,
also have been influenced by changes in
the ancient environment from meandering
rivers with lushly vegetated floodplains to
shallower ephemeral streams and lakes under
dryland conditions. This newer setting is more
conducive to preserving footprints because
deposits in the soil are less likely to erode.
Based on our measurements, we identified
three distinct types of footprint shapes that
may be attributed to the three different
theropods that roamed the landscape in the
Early Jurassic. This means that southern
Africa’s theropod footprint record reflects
a greater theropod diversity than the scant
carnivorous dinosaur body fossil record, which
only preserves fragmentary material of two
theropods, Dracovenator and Megapnosaurus.
More to explore
Another key finding centred on changes to the
form of theropods’ footprints. One is that the
forward projection of the middle toes (how much
further forward it is than the outer two toes)
decreased over time. Another change is that
small local theropods had shorter middle toe
projections than their contemporaneous North
American equivalents. These observations
require more investigation to better understand
what these changes mean, especially because
the middle toe projection has been linked to an
animal’s running ability.
Our research illustrates the importance
of the understudied fossil footprint record in
studying ancient life and how it complements
the more explored body fossil record. Make no
bones about it: evolutionary changes among
southern African dinosaurs can be tracked by
examining their footprints.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
bone fragments alone cannot
help scientists piece together the
puzzle of ancient life. the traces
of animals offer another
avenue of study.

Flipper traces reveal the
presence of ancient seals
on South Africa's coast
By Charles Helm
Research Associate, African Centre for Coastal Palaeoscience, Nelson Mandela
University
FLIPPER TRACES REVEAL THE PRESENCE OF ANCIENT SEALS ON SOUTH AFRICA'S COAST
Until now, there’s been no documented evidence of
fossilised seal traces – the tell-tale signs of these big
animals dragging their flippers while hauling themselves
along ancient beaches.
T
he world’s largest and heaviest
living carnivore is not a big
cat, a bear or a wolf: it’s the
southern elephant seal
(Mirounga leonina). Bulls of
this species can be 5 metres
long and can weigh up to 3 500 kg. The Cape
fur seal, meanwhile, can grow to 3.9 metres
and weigh up to 360 kg. A large African lion, by
comparison, weighs 250 kg.
So, you might think that the ancient ancestors
of these and other large seals would leave
ample evidence of their presence in the fossil
record. That’s partly true; there is an extensive
global body fossil record for seals. But, until
now, there’s been no documented evidence
of fossilised seal traces – the tell-tale signs of
these big animals dragging their flippers while
hauling themselves along ancient beaches.
Our new research, from South Africa’s
Goukamma Nature Reserve on the country’s
Cape south coast, changes that. The traces we
discovered and described are from two sites
that date back about 75 000 years.
This adds to our existing knowledge about
what kinds of animals roamed this landscape
long ago, as well as what the landscape
might have looked like – an important part of
understanding what’s changed over time and
how it might change as the climate shifts.
Many different creatures
The Cape South Coast Ichnology Project
started in 2008. Ichnology is the study of tracks
and traces. Since then, our team has identified
more than 300 vertebrate track sites along a
350-km stretch of the South African coastline.
The tracks and traces date back to the
Pleistocene epoch, which started around 2.6
million years ago and ended 11 700 years ago.
The tracks and traces are found in
aeolianites (the cemented remains of dune
surfaces) and cemented beach deposits. The
fossil sites have provided a census of which
creatures left traces of their passage on
those ancient dunes and beaches: elephants,
crocodiles, large birds – and even hominins,
human ancestors. There were tiny members of
this varied community, too; we’ve reported on
gerbil and spider tracks and traces.
Seals’ absence from the global ichnology
record can probably be explained by these
mammals spending much of their time in the
ocean, and to a preference for rocky islands,
cliff-side ledges and pebble beaches when they
do come ashore. None of these environments
would preserve fossil traces of seals.
However, large colonies can be found on
remote sandy beaches, and individual seals
often haul up on beaches, both of which might
leave a trace fossil record.
Two sites
One of the sites we studied was situated on
a north-facing slope of a sand-bar and shows
a furrow created by sliding down the slope,
The Cape South Coast
Ichnology project started
in 2008. Ichnology is
the study of tracks and
traces. Since then, our
team has identified more
than 300 vertebrate
track sites along a 350-
km stretch of the South
African coastline.
complete with hind-flipper drag marks. There
are parallel grooves and nested grooves
adjacent to it, consistent with front-flipper
traces. Taken together, these features are
more consistent with traces of a fur seal than
those of an elephant seal. Both species occur
on the coastline today, but Cape fur seals are
far more common.
Cape fur seals often gather into dense
rookeries, some of which contain hundreds of
thousands of seals; one such rookery can be
found at Cape Cross in Namibia.
Seals in rookeries on beaches may create
depressions in the sand that are moulds of
their outlines, and this is what the evidence at
the second site suggests.
Four large impressions are consistent
with moulds of juvenile seals, and one of
these contains what appears to be a flipper
impression. Microscopy of thin sections
sampled from the rock surfaces enabled us to
ascertain that both sites are from beach rather
than dune environments.
This helped to corroborate our interpretation
of the tracks as seal traces. Meanwhile,
optically stimulated luminescence dating
studies performed at the University of
Leicester indicated that the seals inhabited
these beaches about 75 000 years ago.
More to find?
The notion of seal traces, made so long ago on
these beaches, being evident on rock surfaces
today can be regarded as remarkable. Our
findings help to fill what was a substantial gap
in the global ichnology record. Our discoveries
will hopefully spur researchers elsewhere to
look for similar traces to better understand
what parts of the ancient world seals occupied,
and when.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
FLIPPER TRACES REVEAL THE PRESENCE OF ANCIENT SEALS ON SOUTH AFRICA'S COAST
Our findings help to fill what was a substantial gap
in the global ichnology record. Our discoveries will
hopefully spur researchers elsewhere to look for
similar traces to better understand what parts
of the ancient world seals
occupied, and when.
 | FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  86 87

| FEATUREFEATURE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
88 89
Four lessons from Serena Williams
for sportswomen in Africa
By Awino Okech
Associate Professor in Political Sociology, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London
FOUR LESSONS FROM SERENA WILLIAMS FOR SPORTSWOMEN IN AFRICA
The story of Serena Williams and her sister Venus Williams, a fellow star player, is not
one of privilege. Serena’s success was initially nurtured at an old public tennis court in
her neighbourhood.
U
nited States icon Serena
Williams, considered one of
the greatest tennis players
of all time, is retiring from
professional tennis. Williams
has won 23 grand slam
singles titles, more than any other woman or
man during the professional era, which began
in 1968.
Coached by her father, she changed the
face of the women’s game.
In the process, through speaking frankly
about her life and career, she became a role
model for many black women around the world.
Tennis Kenya secretary general and former
player, Wanjiru Mbugua Karani, recently said:
“Serena has been the ‘be-all’ for African tennis,
and especially for girls in Africa.”
We asked Kenyan political sociologist and
gender expert Awino Okech what lessons can
be learned for African women in sports when
reflecting on Williams’ career.
Public investment in sport pays off
The story of Serena Williams and her sister
Venus Williams, a fellow star player, is not one
of privilege.
Serena’s success was initially nurtured at an
old public tennis court in her neighbourhood.
Her father gathered resources where he could
find them to skill his daughters when he saw
potential in tennis.
Across sections of Africa, we see the public
divestment in sports through land grabs with
public parks converted into office buildings and
apartments, thus limiting space for recreation
and sports.
Secondly, the privatisation of sporting
facilities limits public access as people have to
pay to use them. Thirdly, the under-resourcing
of public schools results in limited, if any,
investment in sporting facilities.
The result is a class divide that writes
out most young Africans from sporting
opportunities.
African governments need to make greater
investments in public sports facilities and
programmes targeting girls, particularly in
contexts where sports is not viewed as a viable
career option.
Serena and Venus Williams’ importance to world
tennis lies in their being outliers in a sport that has
been historically dominated by white women and
men. Consequently, Serena’s iconic stature as a
tennis star has been coloured by the gender and
racial dynamics that have shaped
her treatment in the sport.
The combination of race and gender doubles the battle that Serena Williams
and other international athletes like South African sprinting champion Caster
Semenya must contend with.
Racism in sport must be eliminated
Serena and Venus Williams’ importance to
world tennis lies in their being outliers in a sport
that has been historically dominated by white
women and men.
Consequently, Serena’s iconic stature as a
tennis star has been coloured by the gender
and racial dynamics that have shaped her
treatment in the sport.
She was subjected to descriptions around
her masculinity, aggression and her power
as a player. These are broader racialised
tropes that link black people to savagery and
whiteness to evolved humanity.
In the visual and verbal descriptions of
Serena in the public media, we saw the use
of historically racialised tropes of the angry
black woman and animalistic caricatures by
the media and social media users.
This was intended to diminish her capabilities
through psychological warfare.
Anti-black racism in sport has been the
subject of public debates and investigations.
One study revealed that black football players
who missed penalties were the most abused
players in the Euro 2020 championship final
stage.
In Serena’s case, these experiences sit at
the intersection of gender and race. All women
share the experience of sexism – from pay
disparities to the lack of attention to women’s
sports compared to men’s.
However, the combination of race and
gender doubles the battle that Serena Williams
and other international athletes like South
African sprinting champion Caster Semenya
must contend with.
Serena took a stand. She withdrew from and
boycotted events such as the BNP Paribas
Open in California because of racial slurs from
the crowd.
The race problem in sports – which becomes
visible through online abuse, spectator
behaviour and overall sports management – is
reflective of a broader problem.
The anti-black character of racism
experienced by Serena will not be solved by
more representation of black women but by a
systemic reckoning that challenges how race
and gender disparities are entrenched in the
DNA of competitive sport.
We need to talk about mental health in
women’s sport
Sexism and racism, accompanied by the
intense public scrutiny in competitive sport,
have drawn attention to the critical question of
mental health.
We are now witnessing a generation of
younger athletes such as Japanese tennis star
Naomi Osaka and US gymnastics champion
Simone Biles taking a stand.
They have at times chosen mental well-
being over participating in high-pressured
competitions. Serena Williams has played an
important role in creating the space for a tennis
player like Osaka to speak out.
These acts of courage take place in an
environment in which a discussion on mental
well-being is construed as weakness. They
focus attention on a neglected area in sports,
the need for a holistic health system that
supports the pressure cooker environment of
elite sports.
The case of Kenyan middleweight boxer
Conjestina Achieng, the first African woman to
hold an international boxing title, is illustrative.
Achieng, who was diagnosed with mental
illness, has been failed by a broader public
health system. One that allocates too few
resources to training mental health experts and
providing specialist services in public hospitals.
The limited options available for athletes in
the global South points to the destruction of
public health systems due to privatisation.
In Kenya, for example, failed public
healthcare is a legacy of policies promoting
historical inequality, which continues under
the veneer of public-private partnerships. A
conversation about mental health in sports is
fundamentally a public policy discussion about
economic investment in health systems.
Sportswomen deserve a more secure future
Serena’s exit from tennis is accompanied by
a financial exit strategy – Serena Ventures,
a venture capital firm. The financial security
built of decades of success in a sport does not
translate in the same way in contexts shaped
by vast economic disparities. Serena’s context
shows what needs to change.
In Kenya, coupled with the pressures of
competitive sport, women athletes are also
dealing with the silence around intimate partner
violence in the sports fraternity – highlighted
by the murders of athletes Agnes Tirop and
Damaris Muthee.
There are three interlocked issues here. The
first is the absence of strong financial advice
and support to athletes over the course of
their careers. The second is the vast societal
inequalities that create undue pressure on
young athletes who come into money to
support their families financially. Finally, the
combination of class and gender demands
that femicide and intimate partner violence are
taken as seriously by sports associations as
they do anti-doping campaigns.
Serena Williams’ journey of excellence and
fortitude also shines a light on the negative
outcomes that sit at the intersection of race,
gender and class in sports specifically and
society generally.
As we hail the “Greatest of All Time”, African
governments must take heed of the structural
shifts required in our sports arena.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
FOUR LESSONS FROM SERENA WILLIAMS FOR SPORTSWOMEN IN AFRICA

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  90
Mezzo-soprano Siphokazi Molteno makes her debut at the Metropolitan Opera
S
iphokazi Molteno recently
debuted at the Metropolitan
Opera in New York, playing
the role of Flora in Verdi’s
La
Traviata. Her performance has received high
praise from critics and she says her dreams
have come true!
Molteno, from Cape Town, is an award-
winning opera singer. She graduated with
degrees in Music from Nelson Mandela
University and the University of Cape Town.
As a young artist with Cape Town Opera,
she sang Dorabella in
Così fan tutte . She
went on to win the Fleur Du Cap’s Best
Performance in an Opera (Female) Award in
both 2020 and 2022 for the role.
Molteno also received the 2020 Rising Star
Encouragement Award in the Glyndebourne
Opera Cup and received both the Ana María
Martínez Encouragement Award and the
Audience Choice Award at Houston Grand
Opera’s Eleanor McCollum Competition in
2017.
“I’m still in disbelief and words cannot
express how grateful I am, I waited for this
moment since I was a little girl and little did I
know that this dream will come true so early
in my career.” – Siphokazi Molteno
Opera critic Rick Perdian, for the
New York
Classical Review , gave high praise for her
debut performance, saying: “There were two
house debuts of note. As Violetta’s confident
Flora, mezzo-soprano Siphokazi Molteno,
a member of the Met’s Lindemann Young
Artist Development Programme, displayed
a striking voice. Flora often comes off as
frivolous and flighty, yet Molteno’s take on
her was just the opposite.”
Her season at the Metropolitan Opera will
include her role as Flora in
La Traviata  and
Sister Mathilde in Dialogues des Carmélites .
www.goodthingsguy.com
South Africa finishes top In Portugal with 26 golds at the Biathle-Triathle World
Championships
S
outh Africa came out tops – out of
31 countries – with an amazing 26
gold medals at the Biathle-Triathle
World Championships, which was
held recently in Madeira, Portugal.
 The
Union Internationale de Pentathlon
Moderne (UIPM) World Pentathlon said: “The
60 who gathered at Machico, on the island of
Madeira. The sequence of Biathle is run-swim-
run, while athletes in Triathle compete in a
swim-run-shoot format.
The sport made its debut on the international
stage at the UIPM Biathle-Triathle World
Championships in 2013 in Cyprus.
www.sapeople.com
battle for medal supremacy was an all-African
affair as South Africa and Egypt shone across
almost all age grades. In the end, it was South
Africa who came out on top …”
Egypt finished with 22 golds and Great Britain
with 16. There were 31 countries with 647
athletes ranging in age from under nine to over
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  91
Flying the FLAG
Documentary about Ladysmith Black Mambazo founder Joseph Shabalala wins at
international festival
Charlize Theron and Dior launch capsule created by SA designer Thebe Magugu
C
harlize Theron and Dior have
teamed up with South African
fashion designer Thebe Magugu
in support of her Africa Outreach
Project.
The South African-born actor shared a
snippet on Instagram, unveiling the stunning
pieces in the limited-edition capsule.
"The South African designer and youngest
recipient of the LVMH Prize created pieces
that are colourful, female-focussed and
whose proceeds benefit the health, education
and safety of young people living in southern
Africa," she wrote in her caption.
Magugu is the youngest recipient of the
LVMH Prize and the first African to receive the
prestigious distinction. The capsule comprises
six key pieces, including a white cotton
T-shirt, entirely produced in South Africa, that
displays the design of two female profiles
holding hands. The same design appears on
a silk twill scarf featuring captivating graphics
constellated with the Dior signature.
The Dior Book Tote is embellished with the
same design in a large format.
A matching hat adorned with two drawstrings
completes this hyper-modern, hybrid
silhouette. It is elevated by a feather-light
tulle skirt, with pleats underlining symmetrical
effects.
"I am proud to introduce my new capsule
in collaboration with Dior; one that benefits
CTAOP – a foundation created by my fellow
South African Charlize Theron – which invests
in the health, education and safety of young
people living in southern Africa," Magugu said
of the capsule.
www.news24.com
T
he documentary about Ladysmith
Black Mambazo founder Joseph
Shabalala and the multi-Grammy-
award winning singing group
scooped the second prize at the Art & Tur film
festival in Ourém, Portugal, in October 2022.
It was shot over five years and includes
artists like Dolly Parton and Stevie Wonder,
whom he worked with.
According to a press statement,
Music Is
My Life – Joseph Shabalala and Ladysmith
Black Mambazo was selected from 87 films
and shortlisted from 281 promotional and
documentary films from 32 countries.
It scooped the second spot after the
shortlisted films were evaluated by an
international jury consisting of film experts
from 19 countries, who reflected on the topics
covered in the films in 13 thematic sessions.
"It was a great honour to be able to travel to
Famita, Portugal, to receive the award for our
film and for the support we received from the
KwaZulu-Natal Film Commission both while
making this film and for entry our film into the
festival," its producer, Carolyn Carew, said in
the statement. Director Mpumi Supa Mbele
said Shabalala's achievements etched him
among African musical superstars.
"Shabalala's achievements place him in
the pantheon of African musical superstars.
This film takes viewers on his spiritual and
emotional journey."
The documentary tells the story of how
Shabalala (1940 – 2020) and the group rose
to fame after contributing to Paul Simon's
Graceland album. It covers Shabalala's life,
from his early years to the height of his global
success and his death.
"Along with the footage from the Graceland
recording sessions, the film introduces us
to many of the luminaries who worked with
Shabalala, including Dolly Parton and Stevie
Wonder," the statement continued.
"The film also documents the complex history
of isicathamiya music – the musical idiom
whose boundaries he helped to expand in
terms of the political and musical forces that
helped to form it."
www.news24.com

U
nathi Lutshaba is officially one of
the world’s most influential people
of African descent as chosen by
the United Nations (UN). She was
honoured due to her work as the Executive
Director of the SA Cultural Observatory.
Included in the Most Influential People
of African Descent’s (MIPAD) Global Top
100 Under 40 sector in the Activism and
Humanitarian Category, Lutshaba received the
recognition at the UN’s headquarters in New
York in October 2022. MIPAD identifies high
achievers of African descent in the public and
private sectors from all around the world as a
progressive network of relevant actors to join
together in the spirit of recognition, justice and
development of Africa and it’s people on the
continent.
The event ran for five days and included
leadership training, panel discussions and
opportunities to work and collaborate with fellow
recipients from around the world. Lutshaba
is a Nelson Mandela University alumnus and
is based out of the university’s building where
she works towards researching South Africa’s
diverse arts and cultures.
She graduated from the university in 2011
with a Master’s degree in Development Studies.
Since then, she has headed up a research team
building evidence and influencing policy in the
music, visual arts and film industry, for the good
of creatives and the country’s economy.
“The creative world is no longer about art for
art’s sake, but rather an undervalued and under-
supported industry with untapped potential for
generating economic growth and social unity.”
This country’s cultural and creative industry
accounts for 6% of all jobs and in 2020, it
directly contributed R161 billion, or 2.97%, of
the country’s gross domestic product.
Her contribution to research and understanding
this sector has greatly empowered South
Africans.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Unathi Lutshaba honoured by UN with “Most Influential” title
T
ravel + Leisure has released a list of
the top 10 Extraordinary Fine-dining
Experiences Around the World – from
dinner under the sea to lunch in an
ice cave – and a South African restaurant has
found itself at the top of the list! The publication
highlighted one-of-a-kind eating experiences that
are unavailable anywhere else on the planet.
Some of these destinations lean toward theatre,
while others border on the surreal.
“Dinner under the sea. Lunch inside an ice
cave. Small bites in a subterranean root cellar.
A wine-paired picnic on a lava field. They say
you eat with your eyes first and nowhere is that
truer than at the world’s most unique fine-dining
restaurants and other-worldly environments
where the settings are as epic and imaginative
as what’s on the plate.” –
Travel + Leisure
From Waldorf Astoria in the Maldives to Eden
Roc Cap Cana in the Dominican Republic, the
full list takes one deep into caves and even to
Richard Branson’s private island.
But the restaurant that brings all the feels is
Klein Jan in the Kalahari!
From kneading dough in the farmhouse kitchen
of his childhood in Mpumalanga, South Africa, to
running his own restaurant in Nice, France, Jan-
Hendrik van der Westhuizen’s journey has taken
many unexpected turns.
In 2019, he opened Klein Jan in the heart of
the Kalahari. Klein Jan is at Tswalu Kalahari, one
of South Africa’s leading private game reserves;
an untamed, untouched, unspoiled refuge that
celebrates the simple, authentic splendours of
this magical region. Driven by his values of local
authenticity, heritage and sustainability of the
environment, Klein Jan has become the region’s
South African restaurant tops world’s Extraordinary Fine-Dining List
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  92
Cape Town is Africa’s best destination
South African opera singer Pretty Yende awarded Ceremonial Badge of Honour in France
F
or the fourth year in a row, Table
Mountain has been voted Africa’s
leading tourist attraction in the World
Travel Awards 2022 for Africa.
The Table Mountain Cable Way is also in the
running for the World’s Leading Cable Car Ride.
It was the fifth win for the mountain attraction.
The V&A Waterfront and Robben Island were
also in the running, as was Mount Kilimanjaro,
which has five wins under its belt too.
While Cape Town bagged a handful of wins
‒ such as Africa’s Leading City Destination and
Leading Airport ‒ Durban came out tops in the
Events and Festivals Category for the second
year in a row and was elected for the sixth
year in a row as Africa's Leading Meetings and
Conference Destination. Kenyatta International
Convention Centre in Nairobi was chosen as
Africa's Leading Meetings and Conference
Centre.
The Silo Hotel in Cape Town did a double as
well, being voted Africa's Leading Design Hotel
as well as Africa's Leading Luxury Hotel. The
Saxon Hotel, Villas and Spa in Johannesburg
was again elected Leading Boutique Hotel, and
the Nelson Mandela Platinum Suite at the hotel
was voted Leading Hotel Suite.
The Leading Hotel in Africa is the Fairmont
Mount Kenya Safari Club in Nanyuki.
Silvan Safari in Mpumalanga came out tops
in the Leading Luxury Lodge Category. It was
voted the top luxury lodge in the world for the
last four years and is in the running again.
The Leading Private Game Reserve is
Shambala Private Game Reserve in Limpopo,
and the Leading Safari Lodge is Earth Lodge
@ Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve in
Mpumalanga.
The Serengeti in Tanzania is the Leading
National Park in Africa again.
The Blue Train has no competition in this race
and got its 14th nod as the continent’s Leading
Luxury Train. It was nominated as the Leading
Luxury Train in the World again this year.
On the booking side of the business, South
Africa scored two more wins: Flight Centre
was voted Africa's Leading Travel Agency, and
Rennies BCD Travel Africa's Leading Travel
Management Company.
The Leading Beach Destination is again
Zanzibar, and the Leading Beach Resort is
Swahili Beach in Kenya.
www.goodthingsguy.com
I
n October 2022, South African opera
singer Pretty Yende earned yet another
recognition from the international world
for her contribution to the arts.
She was awarded an Order of Arts and
Letters Award by France’s Culture Minister,
Rima Abdul Malak. The award is given to those
whose creativity has helped develop the arts
and literature in France and throughout the
world.
Born in 1985 in a remote town in South
Africa, Yende was first introduced to operatic
music at the age of 16 when hearing the
Flower Duet from Delibes’s opera Lakmé in a
British Airways commercial. At that moment,
she decided to become an opera singer.
Years later, Yende is one of opera’s fastest-
rising divas, a star of Milan’s La Scala, New
York’s Met and as a top billing at London’s
Covent Garden.
Yende rose to the top of the opera world
with unparalleled speed, with competition
successes and engagements at the world’s
foremost opera houses.
She made her professional operatic debut
at the Latvian National Theatre in Riga as
Micaela in
Carmen and has since been seen
at nearly all of the major theatres of the world,
including the Metropolitan Opera, Teatro Alla
Scala, Covent Garden, Deutsche Oper Berlin,
and many others.
In 2019, Italy honoured her with the Order
of “Knight of the Italian Star”. Yende was the
youngest South African to receive this honour.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  93
culinary epicentre, a place where the Kalahari’s
unique ingredients are translated into world-class
cuisine.
"The adventure begins en route to this one-
of-a-kind dining destination since wildlife and
matchless landscapes encompass the drive in.
"Combine a century-old farmhouse in the midst
of the Kalahari Desert’s iconic orange sand, an
awe-inspiring subterranean root cellar 13 feet
below, and a soaring dining room open to the
wild, and you start to get the picture of Klein
Jan, a transportive culinary experience created
by Michelin-starred chef Jan Hendrik van der
Westhuizen for South Africa’s largest private
safari reserve.
"The surprises are endless and stupendous,
both in the way diners physically move through
the meal and the flavours, textures, and stories
packed into the delectable journey that is
distinctly of the Kalahari.
"This is no passive lunch or dinner; it’s
participatory, immersive, and wildly thrilling,
mysteries unfolding with every exceptional bite.”
–
Travel + Leisure
www.goodthingsguy.com

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
94
LIFESTYLE |
Siya Kolisi spreads gospel with eye-catching segment on US' legendary 60 Minutes
I
f the Springboks receive a sharp boost
in support from the United States, they
should thank Siya Kolisi.
In October 2022, the national skipper's
burgeoning reputation as one of the most
recognisable world athletes to emerge from
South Africa was entrenched after he was
featured in a full segment on
60 Minutes, one
of America's most respected and longstanding
national news programmes.
While some chunk of the insert chronicles his
significant playing exploits – Kolisi's excellent
showing in the third Test against Wales in Cape
Town this year features prominently – it's his
inspirational life story and his huge contribution
to the Bok brand, transcending mere sporting
excellence and becoming a beacon of hope for
the nation that, rightly, dominates the narrative.
As host Jon Wertheim notes in his
introduction: "Captaincy is more important still
when your rugby team represents an entire
country.
"So, when Siya Kolisi was named captain
of the national team, the first black player to
hold the honour, it may as well have marked a
political appointment.
"Kolisi responded with a singular approach,
reconsidering a macho sport and recognising
how valuable rugby can be [by] helping bind
a country still riven by crime, corruption and
inequality."
Kolisi regaled how he felt when Rassie
Erasmus, SA Rugby's Director of Rugby,
confirmed his appointment in mid-2018.
"Honestly, I didn't know what it meant," Kolisi
told the show.
"I didn't realise how big it was until it was
announced. I saw myself in every single
newspaper, the headlines. Turn on the TV,
everybody's talking about it … I was just
happy that I was promoted captain. And then,
I spoke to people. They're like, 'But you don't
understand, like, representation matters'."
That's also the reason why Francois Pienaar,
South Africa's captain in the momentous 1995
World Cup win, believes 2019's success was
more significant.
"When your country performs, or an individual
performs, you are that person, or you are that
team. You wear the colours; you're so invested
in the emotions. And I never realised how big it
would be. Never," he said.
"In South Africa and the townships across the
land, everybody, again, was proud. They were
world champions, and that is what sport does.
Nothing else can do that."
Following that triumph, Kolisi said he and wife
Rachel made a concerted effort to let it count
for more, notably establishing their foundation.
"We all want these big moments. It can be
just a big moment. That's it ... or you can use it
for so much more."
www.news24.com
The Silo Hotel named one of the Most Instagrammable Pools in the World
T
he Silo Hotel at the V&A Waterfront
is one of Cape Town’s newest
highlights in travel. The hotel has
been built inside an old grain silo,
and the architecture is unbelievable. Since
its opening, the hotel has been earning many
accolades from around the world, and the
latest is for how “instagrammable” it is, as voted
by Big 7 Travel. Some 1.5 million people from
60 countries take surveys for Big 7 Travel and
vote for the best travel accolades worldwide.
Big 7 Media shares several lists, which
promote global travel. In the past, it has shared
lists about South Africa, including being the fifth
most “Instagrammable” country in the world in
2019, or Kruger and Cape Town listed in the
top 50 destinations to visit after the COVID-19
pandemic. There have been many more, but
these are just a few of the exciting accolades
awarded to South Africa.
The Silo Hotel pool boasts some incredible
views, which is why the pool has earned a
place on the “50 Most Instagrammable Pools
in the World“.
The proudly South African pool lands at
number 22 on this list. In 2021, it was named
the third-best pool in the world by the same
publication.
“Global travel site Big 7 Travel has officially
released the 50 Most Instagrammable Pools
in the World 2022. Our annual hashtag tally,
which is now in its second year, analyses
swimming pools that hold the most gram
appeal.
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  94
Caleb Payne wins Young Artist Academy Award for his role in Good Life
Cape Town voted one of the best cities in the world
E
leven-year-old Caleb Payne has
made South African history by
becoming the first young actor
to win a “Youth Oscar” in over 43
years.
The proudly South African film
Good Life
continues to inspire and Payne was delighted
when he received a nomination from the Young
Artist Academy in Hollywood, California, for
the Feature Film Artist Category. The Young
Artist Academy Awards are playfully dubbed
the “Youth Oscars”. The award ceremony took
place in Los Angeles on 2 October 2022.
The awards have seen the likes of Scarlett
Johansson, Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer
Lawrence as nominees and winners. Payne
is the first South African to be nominated for a
Youth Artist Award in its 43-year history. Payne
played the role of Jetmir in the film
Good Life,
which has been taking the world by storm. The
film won the award for Best Feature Film at the
Berlin Independent Film Festival.
The film follows Olive Pappadopoulous, 35,
an oral hygienist from Cape Town, who flees
the country after she is left heartbroken.
She arrives in her Mediterranean paradise
only to be faced with hostility from the local
villagers. Olivia is then befriended by a seven-
year-old refugee named Jet, who teaches her
how to live the
Good Life.
At just 11 years old, Payne has already had
an exciting career with appearances in The
Kissing Booth 3  (Netflix 2021), Resident Evil
(Netflix 2022), Warrior S1&2 (HBO 2018 – )
and Lincoln (History 2021).
On stage, he played the role of Eric in GWB
Entertainment’s touring production of Matilda.
He has been in local productions such as
MNet’s successful series
Lioness where he
rubbed shoulders with South African acting
elite such as Frank Rautenbach, Natasha
Sutherland and Fiona Ramsay
.
www.goodthingsguy.com
R
eaders have to rate their favourite
countries based on various criteria,
including food, accommodation,
scenery and value for money.
The annual Readers’ Travel Awards celebrate
the best of the best in travel, as voted for by
people who love travel … the readers of
Condé
Nast Traveler.
A score is then given, representing overall
average levels of satisfaction. Cape Town
scored 88.27 for 2022, putting the Mother City
at number nine.
This is what the publication had to say:
“On pristine beaches, penguins waddle about
their business while leaping dolphins frame
spectacular sunsets – and thrill-seekers head
out on boats to come face-to-face with fearsome
sharks. Away from the ocean, guests check into
world-renowned hotels such as The Silo, the
recognisable property where rooms feature
contemporary African art and 360-degree views
of the city. Table Mountain views are enjoyed
over supper, especially during trips to Delaire
Graff Estate for wine-swirling and impeccable
tasting menus.”
This is not the first time that Cape Town has
been voted as “one of the best cities” in the
world. In 2019,
The Telegraph voted Cape Town
as The Best City in the world … a title that the
city had held onto for seven years! In 2021, the
city was voted as Best in Africa and earlier this
year, the Mother City was named voted 11th-
best city in the world (and second-best in Africa).
See the full
Condé Nast Traveler list below:
10. Mumbai, India. Score 88.27
9. Cape Town, South Africa. Score 88.27
8. Québec City, Canada. Score 88.29
7. Mérida, Mexico. Score 88.30
6. Tokyo, Japan. Score 88.32
5. San Sebastián, Spain. Score 89.15
4. Bangkok, Thailand. Score 89.36
3. Victoria, Canada. Score 89.46
2. Singapore. Score 89.49
1. San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. Score 92.94.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  95
“The full list includes 50 destinations on
nearly every continent, from infinity pools
overlooking Caribbean turquoise oceans
to a golden energy pool surrounded by
the towering Himalayas. We ranked these
breathtaking pools based on the number of
times the hashtag was used on Instagram."
www.goodthingsguy.com

Stars reunite in New York to celebrate 30 years of Sarafina!
A
special screening of the
pioneering South African film
Sarafina! took place recently
to commemorate the 30th
anniversary of its release in the United
States (US).
"I am honoured to be alive to celebrate
the 30-year anniversary," said lead actor,
Whoopi Goldberg, who attended the event.
The screening at the Museum of Modern
Art in New York on 21 September 2022 – co-
hosted by Anant Singh, the Nelson Mandela
Foundation and the South African Consulate
General in New York – coincided with the
United Nations (UN) General Assembly.
The event was attended by His Serene
Highness, Prince Albert of Monaco, members
of the original
Sarafina! cast, including
lead actors Goldberg and Leleti Khumalo,
Ntombikhona Dlamini, Nandi Ndlovu,
Lindiwe Dlamini, Basetsana Kumalo, Chair
of the South African Chamber of Commerce
in the US, Neil Diamond and a host of UN
delegates, diplomats and members of the
International Olympic Committee. Directed
by Darrell Roodt,
Sarafina! had its US premiere
at New York's prestigious Radio City Musical
Hall 30 years ago, on 14 September 1992.
Speaking at the screening, Singh said:
"Sarafina! holds up really well 30 years after
its release. The film celebrates the young
women of our liberation, the mothers of the
struggle who made significant sacrifices and
our powerful legacy of activism."
He added: "When we started the process
of making
Sarafina!, little did we know that
by the time the film had its premiere, Madiba
would be released from prison. We are very
privileged that he attended the world premiere
in Johannesburg three decades ago."
Also speaking at the screening, Goldberg
said: "It's great to be here. I look at Leleti, I look
at Anant, and I think, 'Wow, we did do this!' I'm
getting old, and every couple of years, there's a
celebration, and this is a 30-year celebration. I
am honoured to be alive to celebrate it."
Khumalo said: "I lived the role of Sarafina on
stage, and I am grateful to Anant for believing
in me to play the role in the film. I am thrilled to
be here in person to celebrate this milestone
and to share this special moment with Whoopi."
www.news24.com
Carolyn Steyn named Philanthropist of The Year at ceremony in London
I
n September 2022, Carolyn Steyn was
named the Philanthropist of the Year at the
African Achievers Awards in London for her
work in uplifting South African lives.
Steyn is a force of good in South Africa. Her
work has inspired thousands of South Africans
and touched the lives of millions more.
Steyn is a prominent figure in the worlds of
philanthropy, art, music and media in South
Africa. With an early career as an actress and
decades of experience in the world of radio,
she has become a household name and voice,
with a dedication to various cultural or charitable
organisations.
Many know her for her work with 67 Blankets
and the “KnitWits” of South Africa. Through
these philanthropic pursuits, Steyn was
recognised by the African Achievers Awards.
“What a privilege to have been in the
company of such brilliant young minds at
the 12th African Achiever Awards last night,
honouring leaders making strides in changing
the narrative of the African continent. A
particular highlight for me was listening to and
meeting the former President of Mauritius,
Dr Bibi Ameenah Firdaus Gurib-Fakim. Thank
you African Achiever Awards for presenting me
with the award for African Philanthropist of the
Year.
"Knowing that the very first African Achiever
Award was presented to Archbishop Desmond
Tutu back in 2012 makes me feel truly humbled.”
– Carolyn Steyn
This year marked the 12th annual African
Achievers Awards, which were hosted in London.
The awards celebrate African excellence by
recognising and honouring notable individuals
and organisations in Africa across multiple
industries that contribute immensely to the
growth and development of the continent. The
very first award was presented to Archbishop
Tutu in 2012 to recognise his fight for human
rights, justice and peace. This adds to Steyn’s
accolades for 2022, as earlier this year, she
was honoured by the French Embassy with
the award of
Chevalier de l’Ordre National du
Mérite.
www.goodthingsguy.com
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  96
SA lecturer wins prize for representing diversity of Commonwealth chemistry
16-year-old South African wins World Championship in Acting
I
n November 2022, Dr Nehemiah
Latolla was selected as a winner
for the Commonwealth Chemistry
Poster Competition, winning in the
Biodiversity and Natural Products theme.
His winning poster explains the anti-
diabetic activity of the Eastern Cape plants
Cissampelos Capensis  and Strychnos
henningsii .
Dr Latolla works in the Department of
Chemistry, at the Faculty of Science,
Nelson Mandela University. He worked
with Buyiswa Hlangothi to author the
poster. The medicinal plants researched
were investigated for their anti-diabetic
properties. Diabetes is a significant health
issue in South Africa, making the research
vital.
With access to medical care limited and
traditional medicines playing a vital role
in care, the study into these medicinal
plants to see if they can help will assist
many. According to some of the findings
in the study, “the study contributes new
knowledge as it validates the use of these
plants by locals to manage diabetes”.
The Commonwealth Chemistry Poster
Competition is an annual event that was
started three years ago. The Federation
of Commonwealth Chemical Sciences
Societies hosts the competition and invites
scientists from all the Commonwealth
countries to design educational posters
that fall within six themes. These include
Biodiversity and Natural Products, Energy
and Materials, Food and Agriculture, Green
Chemistry and Catalysis, Health and Well-
being, and Water and Environmental
Chemistry.
The federation works to champion equal
opportunity, drive innovation and promote
excellence in the chemical sciences for the
benefit of the Commonwealth nations and
their people.
The competition took place in September
2022 and saw 180 entries from
31 countries.
www.goodthingsguy.com
S
ixteen-year-old Fourways
resident Vongai Dhliwayo
recently competed in the World
Championships of Performing
Arts in Los Angeles and won the Overall
Grand Championship Award for Acting.
 This international competition is often
cited as the official “Talent Olympics” for
aspiring performers and entertainers and
the only event of its kind held annually in
the Hollywood area, the entertainment
capital of the world.
Fifty-two countries competed and
Dhliwayo took home six medals (one gold
and five silver), in addition to winning the
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  97
overall Grand Championship Award for
Acting and the overall Division Award for
Dramatic Acting.
The talented star was also awarded a full
scholarship to the New York Film Academy.
 “I started by picking my monologues
with my coach and then she helped me
prepare them for the next four months. It
was a lot of memorising lines and repeating
monologues over and over again, but I’m
so grateful for the experience and happy to
put the work in,” Dhliwayo explains.
“What was really important for me was to
go on stage and make sure I do the best I
can. This isn’t always easy when there are
so many talented people around you. I am
happy I was able to focus on doing my best
and not trying to outdo the others around
me – I think this is what I’m most proud of
at the championships.”
Dhliwayo is trained by Upstage Concepts
Performing Arts Studio and this is the
second time one of their students has won
the World Championships.
www.goodthingsguy.com

A three-day celebration was held in Gaborone, Botswana, from 3 to 6 August 2022 to commemorate
28 years of diplomatic relations between South Africa and Botswana. The celebrations included a fashion
show where South Africa was represented by the House of Fabrosanz, owned by award-winning female
fashion entrepreneur, Sandisiwe Mazibuko.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
100
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  101
Beyoncé has helped usher in a
renaissance for African artists
By James Chikomborero Paradza
Doctor of Music Candidate, University of Pretoria
BEYONCÉ HAS HELPED USHER IN A RENAISSANCE FOR AFRICAN ARTISTS
Beyoncé has contributed to a renewal of various narratives in popular music and has in
so doing engaged meaningfully with African culture and music.
B
eyoncé has released her
seventh solo studio album,
titled Renaissance (2022).
The album, an event in
global popular culture, is
the first of a three-part
project by the United States (US) artist.
Her previous outing, the visual album Black
is King (2020), collaborated with a host of
African artists.
Renaissance pays tribute to black dance
music and again features African artists,
including Nigerian singer-songwriter Tems,
who is having a global moment of her own.
In history, the renaissance era (from the
1400s) was characterised by the rebirth and
renewal of culture and scholarship in Europe
following a period of stagnation. Today, still,
art – paintings, music, fashion – contributes
to how people dress and behave, what they
choose to post and talk about, and how they
perceive themselves and society.
For the last three decades, Beyoncé has
played a major role in shaping global popular
culture. She has continuously empowered
listeners and sparked debate, and her lyrics
have often been quoted in discussions on
societal issues. Her views on monogamy
on the album Dangerously in Love (2003),
for example, offer a counter narrative to the
patriarchal depiction of hypersexuality in
black women.
On Lemonade (2016), Beyoncé uses
music genres beyond those expected of
a black female artist. In the process, she
challenges the discrimination she faces. On
Black is King, she reflects a renaissance
of African art forms in a time when cultural
norms dominated by Western thinking are
on the decline and Africa’s star is rising
in popular culture. In this article, I argue
that throughout her career, Beyoncé
Throughout her career,
Fassie, one of the queens
of African pop, made
disco and pop music that
was influenced by her
township roots. Her iconic
music narrated the stories
of black South Africans
during the country’s
apartheid era.
“I believe that when
black people tell our own
stories, we can shift the
axis of the world and
tell our REAL history of
generational wealth and
richness of soul that are
not told in our history
books.” – Beyoncé
has contributed to a renewal of various
narratives in popular music and has in so
doing engaged meaningfully with African
culture and music.
African collaborations
Beyoncé has involved various African
artists in her projects and many a time
introduced them to international audiences.
Before Black is King, these include
poetry by Kenyan-born Warsan Shire on
Lemonade, a quote by Nigerian novelist
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie on
Flawless
(2013) and choreography by Tofo Tofo – the
Mozambique-based dance group – in the
Run the World (Girls) video.
Though not as prominently as on Black is
King, Beyoncé has included African artists
on Renaissance too, particularly on the song
Move, which has an Afrobeats-inspired style
and features P2J (Nigeria) and GuiltyBeatz
(Ghana) as producers, as well as Tems as a
writer and performer.
Tems (Temilade Openiyi), a versatile
vocalist who also writes songs, rose to
fame after being featured on Essence
(2020) by Nigerian star vocalist WizKid.
Her discography consists of music across
different genres, including alternative R&B,
neo-soul and Afropop. Her debut single Mr
Rebel (2018) displays her R&B talents (as
both a producer and vocalist), while her
2021 feature on Canadian rapper Drake’s
Fountains shows her ability to convey
emotions through her voice.
Tems’ name is on everyone’s lips following
the release of the trailer for the Black
Panther movie sequel set to her cover of
Bob Marley’s No Woman, No Cry. She has
contributed to the renewal of perceptions
towards Afropop and commercial African
music, and its popularisation across the
globe through her unique style of music.
Black is King
“I believe that when black people tell our own
stories, we can shift the axis of the world
and tell our REAL history of generational
wealth and richness of soul that are not told
in our history books.” – Beyoncé
Black is King, Beyoncé’s previous album,
is a celebration of African traditions with
a “modern twist”. In the visual album, she
incorporates a Pan-African-inspired lens
and integrates elements from several
African countries. She partners with
various African actors, directors, designers,
choreographers and musicians, highlighting
the continent’s diversity.
Viewers are exposed to African elements
ranging from music genres like Afrobeats
(Nigeria) and gqom (South Africa) to popular
dance styles like the Network (Ghana)
and Kpakujemu (Nigeria). There are also
visuals of landscapes across the continent.
Beyoncé must not mistakenly be credited
with originating these elements, nor even
popularising them. They existed and were
appreciated by people long before she
started filming. However, one cannot deny
the instrumental role Beyoncé has played
in bringing these elements to the forefront
of global popular culture as a result of her
platform as an international star.
Moreover, the visual album portrays a
more accurate representation of the African
continent and its diversity than other works
that adopt an African label in global popular
culture.
Black is King  has introduced a
renaissance of Africa’s image in popular
media and empowered many African and
black people as they finally feel more
represented in mainstream popular culture.
Renaissance
Beyoncé has once again incorporated
an element of renewal on Renaissance.
Through the 16 tracks on the album, she
takes listeners on a journey with the stated
intention of creating a safe space, free from
judgement, perfectionism and overthinking.
Listeners are exposed to music that
channels the Studio 54 disco era of the
1970s with effortless transitions to more
contemporary pop, R&B and house genres.
Early disco music was influenced by the
funk, soul and jazz of the late 1960s, and
combined these styles with technology such
as synthesisers, multitrack recordings and
drum machines.
This created a lavish and decadent
form of dance-orientated pop music
characterised by a steady beat and vocals
that are prominent, high and reverberated.
The genre was at its peak between 1975
to early 1979, with artists such as Donna
Summer and Gloria Gaynor dominating the
charts.
On the appropriately titled Renaissance,
Beyoncé has brought this style back to the
forefront of pop culture, introducing many
young listeners to it. From the outset of the
lead single Break My Soul, listeners are
exposed to the album’s pervasive dance-
pop and house-inspired style.
Beyoncé successfully integrates music
genres, including pop, electronic house,
Afrobeats, trap and soul, to name a few, in
combination with various disco influences.
Through the lyrics on the album, an
overarching sense of self-love and pride is
portrayed. This resembles the music by one
of South Africa’s and the continent’s most
prominent pop artists, Brenda Fassie (1964
– 2004).
Throughout her career, Fassie, one of the
queens of African pop, made disco and pop
music that was influenced by her township
roots.
Her iconic music narrated the stories of
black South Africans during the country’s
apartheid era.
Global stage
When considering how popular music acts
as a locus for social change within popular
culture, it is evident that Beyoncé plays a
key role in shaping parts of popular societal
thought.
Throughout her career, her music has
challenged and renewed various narratives
within the popular music industry.
Her work serves as a platform for African
artists on a global stage, using various
music genres as a method to counter
people’s perceptions of black female
musicians. Her latest album continues to do
this by introducing new listeners to a revival
of disco with a contemporary flair.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
BEYONCÉ HAS HELPED USHER IN A RENAISSANCE FOR AFRICAN ARTISTS

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
102
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  103
To keep his vision alive, we could start by
conceiving of creativity as a human potential
in everyone, and prescribe his works to
students of medicine, law, social work and
administration, and not just teaching and
literature.
In his tribute at the memorial, Teddy said that
his father was an oak who left many seeds,
but I disagree. He is a baobab who seeded a
forest.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
Epitaph for a baobab: Remembering
South African poet and activist
Don Mattera
By Phillippa Yaa de Villiers
Poet and Lecturer in Creative Writing, University of the Witwatersrand
EPITAPH FOR A BAOBAB: REMEMBERING SOUTH AFRICAN POET AND ACTIVIST DON MATTERA
Poets are more than wordsmiths, they deliver heart and minds from emotional suffering
and ignorance and inspire agency. It is a calling, not a career.
T
he towering South African
poet, activist and humanitarian
Donato Francesco Mattera
passed away on 18 July 2022
at the age of 86. What he
represented to South Africa is
far larger than his contribution to literature.
During the online memorial service for
Mattera, filmmaker and lecturer Dr Teddy
Mattera said of his father: “He illuminated my
pathway as a creative person.” Tributes from
journalists, historians, politicians, doctors and
lawyers – people who don’t readily identify as
creative – echoed his sentiments. Herein lies
the enduring greatness of Don Mattera: what
he did for people.
He was, in the traditional sense, an African
poet, the centre of social life. Although Don
was entertaining, he was far more than an
entertainer; as a spokesman for the poor and
marginalised, his reach was wider than an
activist’s. He was never a public representative,
yet he represented people.
He was an outsider to the intellectual
establishment; a passionate voice in the
wilderness.
Often abrupt in his critique of elitism, and his
lifelong profound identification with the poorest
and most marginalised members of society,
what he stands for challenges the academy’s
conception of The Humanities.
It urges them to do better to serve human
beings. For South African universities to
walk their decolonial talk, they will have to
acknowledge the importance of a figure like
Mattera to the society well beyond making
people write exams on his scansion and
prosody. They will have to perforate brick and
mortar of the university with clay and thatch,
and abandon, or at least question, the brittle
certainties that uphold the system as it is.
Like all great poets, Don embodied paradox,
and was motivated by, and motivated, radical
change.
From the early days of apartheid right up
until his death, he challenged authority, publicly
witnessed systemic violence; he actively used
his agency and voice to liberate himself and
others.
His style was emotional and subjective,
which may also have contributed to his
exclusion from the academy, where his work is
not widely taught.
He spoke up for and supported organisations
defending prisoners, children, women, people
with disabilities and the KhoeKhoe people. If
the essence of excellent scholarship is rigorous
research, innovation and relevance to society,
Don’s only crime was passion.
Memory is the Weapon
Don’s autobiography
Memory is the Weapon
(1987) is a seminal reflection on apartheid’s
earliest crimes, particularly for its detailed
observation of ordinary life, its unflinching
portrayal of violence and its much-needed
humour and humanity. It is the “poet as
historian” described by South African author
AC Jordan.
An instance of the vividness of his language
and searing compassion, reflecting the
conditions that sadly continue to dehumanise
and impoverish people:
“You would find a man or a woman lying drunk
in the slime and grime and debris, breathing
the foul air of a dispossessed and forsaken life
– men and women robbed of those vital fibres
that separate man from beast.”
Poetry brought Don and I together. We
agreed that poetry, with its ability to contain
and express the harshness of pain, grief, rage
and despair, had drawn us in and healed us:
his from the harsh deprivations of early urban
apartheid and mine from the duplicity of my
childhood.
Poet of compassion
“He led with his soul,” said Fasiha Hassan,
scholar, activist and mentee of activist and
political leader Jessie Duarte at an intimate
Women of Waqf event at the Masjid-Ul-Islam in
Fordsburg specifically designed for community
healing following the deaths of Yasmin Jessie
Duarte and Don Muhammad Omaruddin
Mattera.
Spirituality and poetry are on the same
frequency and lent his words a presence and
intimacy, which inspired his readers to action –
always positive, affirming and defending black
people, and importantly, inspiring people to
raise each other. In this way, we reach for and
enact our highest human potential.
He said to me, “When you get a chance to
move up in the world, look around and see who
you can take with you.”
We were in Kimberley at the Northern Cape
Writers’ Festival of 2008, where he held court
alongside poet Keorapetse Kgositsile, healer
and author Credo Mutwa, and writers Diana
Ferrus, Sindiwe Magona and James Matthews.
Unique in the way it presented traditional
dance and storytellers from deep in the
Kalahari desert, the festival programme taught
me, among other things, that there are at least
three more indigenous languages that are not
recognised because they’re not written down,
and Don could speak them. The Kimberley
stage was broad enough to contain and
Don Mattera’s
unforgettable voice
straddled traditions and
united divergent and often
contradictory imperatives:
he was an oral poet and
a writer, an Italian and an
African, a nationalist and a
Pan-African.
From the early days of apartheid right up until his
death, he challenged authority, publicly witnessed
systemic violence; he actively used his agency
and voice to liberate himself and others.
cherish his unique genius and gave him space
to demonstrate his prolific response to the
canon of indigenous oral poetry, and equally
the lyrical in English.
Don’s relationship with mortality may have
its roots in another formative experience, he
confided in me when we were on tour in the
United Kingdom (UK). As a teenage gangster
in Sophiatown in the 1950s, before he got
involved with politics, he killed a rival gangster
in self-defence.
Eternally wounded by the experience, Don
became the poet of compassion, of anything
life-affirming.
His spirituality was also political: his Pan-
Africanism was non-racial and welcoming.
In 2009, we joined a delegation, including
Kgositsile and Lebo Mashile to tour the UK.
As we walked through the airport, waiters,
servers, bartenders and cleaners flocked to
greet the two gentlemen of letters, while white
fellow travellers looked on bemusedly.
I was reminded, after having experienced
the same with James Matthews two years
previously, that we are seen by those who are
invisible.
And poets are more than wordsmiths,
they deliver heart and minds from emotional
EPITAPH FOR A BAOBAB: REMEMBERING SOUTH AFRICAN POET AND ACTIVIST DON MATTERA
suffering and ignorance and inspire agency. It
is a calling, not a career.
Mattera and his works were banned for
more than 10 years during apartheid. After the
banning order was lifted, he self-published his
poetry collections, and in 2008, Rose Francis,
the founder of African Perspectives Publishing,
republished
Memory is the Weapon  and
Azanian Love Song.
If a poet’s value is based on their commercial
currency, many of us would not be able to
claim the title.
Mattera’s values, strongly influenced by
his Pan-Africanism, Black Consciousness
and Islam, see the well-being of the individual
as indivisible from that of the collective, and
the humanities would do well to follow that
example.
A baobab kneels
The aesthetic concerns of oral poetry do not
always successfully transfer to the page;
sound demands a musicality that is sometimes
at odds with the content of a poem.
Don Mattera’s unforgettable voice straddled
traditions and united divergent and often
contradictory imperatives: he was an oral
poet and a writer, an Italian and an African, a
nationalist and a Pan-African.
bAobAb by phIllIppA yAA DE vIllIERS
FoR All ThE mATTERAS
you SAy An oAK hAS FAllEn
I SAy A bAobAb KnEElS on ThE EARTh
ITS ThICK FInGERS
oFFERInG ChAlKTy FRuITS ThAT quEnCh ThIRST
mEDICInE, pERFumE, TExTIlES, ShElTER. SToRIES.
bAobAb
unFAThomAblE pRESEnCE
ImmEASuRAblE GIRTh
bAbobAS Do noT FAll I SAy
buT juST ThE oThER DAy I READ
A 2500-yEAR olD bAobAb hAS DIED
ThIS GIvInG TREE
SuDDEnTly moRTAl
lIKE Any lIvInG ThInG
AnD noW
moRE pRECIouS
ThAT IT hAS GonE.
noboTy CAn TEll mE WhERE
my GRAnDmoThER IS buRIED
So I Go To vISIT poETS
I KnEEl To FEEl ThE EARTh buzzInG
WITh pRECIouS lIFE lIKE A ChIlD I lIFT
my ARmS REmEmbERInG
my bAby Son SAyInG
up mE mummy, up mE:
I mAy KnEEl lIKE A bAobAb buT my ARmS
ARE Full oF mEmoRIES STAInED WITh REGRET:
SpEnT So muCh TImE ThInKInG I WAS uSElESS
I bECAmE uSElESWS, unTIl Don KnEElInG
on ThE EARTh, holDInG ThE WhIRlInG unIvERSE In hIS
ARmS, RETuRnS To up mE AGAIn.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
104
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  105
Fifth edition of SCULPTX
presents over 200 works and 80 artists
This annual sculpture fair, the largest of its kind in South Africa, this year, presented over
200 works.
T
he fifth edition of SculptX ran
from 1 September to 16 October
2022 at The Melrose Gallery,
Melrose Arch, Johannesburg,
offering art lovers the unique
opportunity to view the largest
and most diverse collection of sculptures.
This annual sculpture fair, the largest of its
kind in South Africa, this year, presented over
200 works. The materials they were fashioned
from varied from bronze to wood, glass, crystal,
steel and bone to stone, resin and other media.
Similarly, the modes of expression encompassed
in this vast number of sculptures varied widely
from figurative works, depicting the human
body, the natural world, or the built environment
to abstract works, where form, texture and line
entertained the eye.
In this way, SculptX revealed the breadths and
depths that this traditional art medium could offer
and the abundance of artistic talent in the country
that had applied itself to this three-dimensional art
form.
In short, SculptX is a celebration of all manner
of sculptural expression.
It was established by The Melrose Gallery in
2017 in association with Melrose Arch and was on
view across multiple venues. “We wanted to create
a platform to promote sculpture and sculptors to
those who live, work and play in the precinct, as
well as art collectors and enthusiasts in general,”
said Craig Mark, Director of The Melrose Gallery.
This fair was also conceived in response to
the increase in bronze-casting foundries in South
Africa, which has led to a growth in the production
and interest in sculpture.
This has translated into the establishment of
outdoor sculpture parks in the country by several
art foundations and artists primarily working in this
medium.
Clearly, there is a need for more platforms for
sculpture. SculptX provides a space for artists
at different levels in their careers. Established
artists – Willie Bester, Pitika Ntuli, Andre Stead
and Strijdom van der Merwe, among numerous
others – showed alongside a younger set of
artists pushing the boundaries of the medium
such as Mandy Johnston, Simon Zitha and
Bridget Modema as well as other emerging and
mid-career artists still exploring the possibilities of
sculpture.
Female artists were represented strongly in
the fair with works by Wilma Cruise, Elizabeth
Balcomb, Ela Cronje, Rirhandzu Makhubele and
Sarah Richards, among many others, dispelling
the myth that sculpture is primarily the preserve
of male artists.
“We have put much effort into sourcing female
and young artists from previously disadvantaged
communities to give them the benefit of this
valuable platform as they are often overlooked
and underrepresented in this genre,” added Mark.
A public call-out process was used to identify
works for the fair and attracted proposals from
many emerging artists.
Curator, Ruzy Rusike, considered more than
300 submissions before settling on the 200 works
by 80 artists. This approach ensured that SculptX
remained an open platform that offered many
surprises in terms of its content.
The works were shown at The Melrose Gallery
and several other indoor and outdoor venues in
Melrose Arch.
This year, the fair once again paired with an
online viewing room where more details about the
artworks and the artists were available, allowing
those near and far to enjoy and browse through
the vast content this fair offers.
Panel discussions and workshops focussed on
the artists and sculpture as a form of expression
were held during the run of the fair.
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28  104 Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  105

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
106
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  107
20 countries and serves as an informative
foundation to build on for fashion lovers,
educators and industry contributors.
The show sets out to involve the Diaspora
of Africa from the start. As a woman of African
heritage, it is wonderful to see family albums
of photographs so relatable to my own. These
images capture artisanal craft, style and pride,
and are evidence that fashion was and is very
much part of the lives of so many Africans
today.
A variety of short films show how fashion
from Africa retains traditional elements
combined with contemporary touches, and
explore creativity and inspiration while offering
opportunities for discussion.
The presentation of traditional clothing
and fashion on display embodies the myriad
cultures and heritages within the continent.
Divided into two sections, the first acts as an
introduction and looks at the development of
post-colonialist fashion.
We see the Ghanian Prime Minister Kwame
Nkrumah wearing a traditional kente cloth as
he announces his country’s independence
from British rule in 1957, and watch as Nelson
Mandela rocks his signature look, the casual
Madiba shirt that made him feel connected to
his people. There is also an array of striking
imagery from the well-known studios of
photographers Sanle Sory and Seydou Keita
from the 1960s and 1970s.
The contemporary section of the exhibition
presents fashion from a variety of designers,
well known on the continent. The new-era
designers have included brands like Nigerian
label Orange Culture and sustainable textile
designer Sindiso Khumalo, both of which
address political issues such as feminism and
LGBTQI+ rights in their work.
The Africa Fashion exhibition is the start of a
conversation on creative developments taking
place, which have been largely ignored in the
west. Its vivid and glorious displays challenge
stereotypes and educate the onlooker by
enriching the knowledge of African fashion. I
urge you to go and see it for yourself.
This article was first published on The Conversation.
Why the V&A's new Africa Fashion
exhibition is important –
and long overdue
WHY THE V&A'S NEW AFRICA FASHION EXHIBITION ISIMPORTANT – AND LONG OVERDUE
“Fashion is a catalyst to tell deeper, richer, expanded stories from across the African
continent. We hope visitors will be inspired and assumptions will be challenged.” –
Christine Checinska, Curator
WHY THE V&A'S NEW AFRICA FASHION EXHIBITION ISIMPORTANT – AND LONG OVERDUE
By Benita Odogwu-Atkinson
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Design, University for the Creative Arts
i
A new show from the V&A Museum in London is always a highlight on the cultural calendar – and Africa Fashion is set to exceed all expectations.
The landmark exhibition brings together an extraordinary collection of work, from the pioneering 20th century African designers through to new-
gen creatives, to showcase the continent’s flourishing fashion scene.
It’s been years in the planning, but Africa Fashion finally opened at the V&A Museum on 2 July – and curator Dr Christine Checinska is excited.
“Africa Fashion is the UK’s most extensive exhibition of African fashions to date, giving a platform to creatives from over 20 countries across a broad
spectrum of aesthetics. It is both a timely and conscious celebration of this innovative and impactful scene,” she tells
The Glossary.
The exhibition is beautifully researched and presented, focussing on two time periods – independence and liberation, and the contemporary
moment – spread across a couple of floors of the gallery. Checinska – a creative designer for brands such as Margaret Howell, as well as a scholar,
fashion historian and the V&A’s inaugural Senior Curator of African and African Diaspora Textiles and Fashion – and project curator Elisabeth
Murray have brought together over 250 objects to tell this story.
Africa Fashion runs from 2 July until 16 April 2023.
vam.ac.uk
A
landmark show has recently
opened its doors at the V&A
in London, where exhibitions
celebrating fashion and
design from around the
world have omitted the
continent of Africa for years. In fact, nearly 200
years. For the first time in its 170-year history,
the V&A is holding an exhibition that centres
solely on African fashion.
Fashion has long been seen and taught as
centred in Europe, with Japanese designers
occasionally highlighted as international non-
Western exponents. The fashion education
experienced by students often relies on a
design cycle that has not changed since the
1980s, focussed on well-known designers
from New York, London, Paris and Milan.
Fashion internationalism must now look
beyond a Eurocentric perspective and draw
from a broader source of creativity with respect
– and appeal to a wider market. It is time to
break the stereotypical elitist view of Africa
and fashion. And this latest exhibition from the
V&A, Africa Fashion, is an excellent place to
start.
Decolonising fashion
Could the lack of recognition of African fashion
be pinpointed to the years of colonialism and
the view that many cultures and heritages of
Africa were dismissed as “simple” and not
worthy of archiving or exhibiting? Even in the
capturing of the past, there is a hierarchical
process that pushes some cultures to the
bottom of a historical league table.
The “simple” take by early colonialists on
African dress – or lack of it as they saw it –
fuelled the dismissal of the African continent as
unsophisticated or unqualified to offer fashion
for decades. This thinking was yet another
form of “othering” that grew from the imagery
and language perpetrated to “sell” slavery.
Colonialists portrayed Africans as uncivilised
and different to European people and culture,
thereby dehumanising the African continent.
European designers have always borrowed
– sometimes even plundered and tokenised
– African cultures in their designs and catwalk
shows. Western designers have been
applauded for their take on African heritage
and culture, while the originators have been
dismissed and left without a platform.
The Western use of African textiles, colours,
patterns and style often exhibited disrespect
and lack of understanding, resulting in
appropriation rather than appreciation.
At last, in this exhibition, the opportunity to
celebrate African fashion has arisen, providing
recognition and status to wonderful sources of
inspiration, creativity and cultural abundancy
as Cameroonian designer Imane Ayissi has
pointed out in the past: “Showcasing, under
the golden crown moulding of a Parisian
building during Haute Couture Week, luxurious
contemporary garments made of textiles
woven by artisans in Cameroon, Ghana or
Nigeria is for me the best way of showing that
Africa knowhow is just as sophisticated and
valuable as artisanship in the rest of the world.”
Groundbreaking
The V&A exhibition has been two years in the
making, and is an opportunity to showcase
vibrant fashion history overlooked by museums
and galleries in the United Kingdom, often
separated and presented in anthropology and
ethnoecology sections.
The entrance to Africa Fashion is welcoming
and beautifully presented, indicating from the
start that this is a respectful space that will tell
the story of rich creativity, but by no means the
whole story. The exhibition was masterminded
by the V&A’s senior curator for Africa and the
Diaspora, Christine Checinska, and initiates
various conversation points such as the
political and cultural renaissance of Africa, and
how this impacts designers.
An important theme is highlighting the
variety of cultures and nations that make up
Africa, which is a continent, not a country. The
exhibition covers 45 designers from more than

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
108
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  109
Spiritual traditions fuel South African
jazz artist Tumi Mogorosi's
new album
SPIRITUAL TRADITIONS FUEL SOUTH AFRICAN JAzz ARTIST TUMI MOGOROSI'S NEW ALBUM
When black South African jazz players, decades ago, heard and admired American jazz
on record or at the movies, they not only copied the styles and approaches. They also
employed many ways to “make it our own”.
B
lues … Black … Darker than
grey/ Creation sounds Gold
Reef Mine rockfall crush-
sounds/ Guitar-string gun-spit
tear flesh/ Black sonic science/
Darkest Acoustics … (from
Where Are The Keys? on Group Theory: Black
Music)
South African poet Lesego Rampolokeng
often writes about black music in his poems.
His collaborations with musicians on record
are rarer but always remarkable. There
was the casette-only 1994 African Axemen
collaboration with Zimbabwean Louis Mhlanga
and a stellar crew of other Pan-African
guitarists. And his Tears for Marikana on Salim
Washington’s album, Sankofa. And now the
track Where Are the Keys? on South African
drummer and composer Tumi Mogorosi’s
fourth outing: Group Theory: Black Music.
What makes the collaboration so satisfying
is the shared skill of both Rampolokeng and
Mogorosi in signifying. Not the “signification”
of semiotics, but the righteous, subversive
signifying perfected by the black churches
and theorised by United States literary critic
Henry Louis Gates Jr. For him, signifying
is “the practice of representing an idea
indirectly, through a commentary that is often
humourous, boastful, insulting, or provocative”.
Communities repurpose ideas; poets like
Rampolokeng do it via wordplay; jazz
musicians, every time they improvise.
So, when black South African jazz players,
decades ago, heard and admired American
jazz on record or at the movies, they not
only copied the styles and approaches. They
also employed many ways to “make it our
own”. When Peter Rezant’s Merry Blackbirds
recorded the international standard
Heatwave
in 1939, for example, they played the tune
straight – but the words, in an African language,
became a praise song for the band’s national
prowess.
Tumi Mogorosi
Musician, activist and scholar Mogorosi started
his musical career as a chorister in church. So,
it’s not surprising that part of his signifying has
often been through working with voices. From
singing, he moved to guitar and later drums. At
18, he studied music at the Tshwane University
of Technology. He now has a Master’s degree
in Fine Arts and is registered on a doctoral
programme.
Along the way, he produced his 2014
debut album,
Project ELO  (from a sextet
with four accompanying voices). In 2017,
he was part of the Swiss-based Sanctum
Sanctorium with its allusion to sacred rites.
He worked internationally with, among others,
United Kingdom (UK) saxophonist Shabaka
Hutchings.
Those international collaborations set the
scene for the joint release of the new album
between South African label Mushroom Half
Hour and UK imprint New Soil.
In 2020, in a trio called Wretched with
vocalist Gabisile Motuba and guitarist Andrei
van Wyk, he improvised and experimented
with vocals and noise.
The album
Group Theory: Black Music has echoes of all
those, but is a sonically distinct new project.
The album’s notes refer to two musical
sources, from South African and American jazz
traditions.
The rich South African vocal tradition of jazz
composers like Todd Matshikiza and Victor
Ntoni, and the work with voices of radical
American jazzmen like Max Roach, Billy
Harper and Andrew Hill.
Mogorosi says: “(Black voices in concert
have) this idea of mass, of a group of people
gathering, which has a political implication. And
the operatic voice has both a presence and a
capacity to scream, a capacity for affect. The
instrumental group can sustain the intensity
of that affect, and the chorus can go beyond
improvisation, towards communal melodies
that everyone can be a part of.”
So, alongside the jazz quintet (Mogorosi,
reedman Mthunzi Mvubu, trumpeter Tumi
Pheko, guitarist Reza Khota and bassist Dalisu
Ndlazi) the tracks employ a nine-voice chorus,
predominantly singing in unison to shape the
communal voice. There are also two guest
vocalists, Motuba and Siyabonga Mthembu,
each providing a very different interpretation
of the traditional
Sometimes I Feel Like a
Motherless Child.
That choice of song (the only one not
composed by Mogorosi) makes explicit the
community and spiritual traditions shared by
Africa and the black Diaspora. Mthembu’s take
on it is inspiring, heartfelt and soul-infused: the
Musician, activist and scholar Mogorosi started his musical career as a chorister in
church. So, it’s not surprising that part of his signifying has often been through working
with voices. From singing, he moved to guitar and later drums. At 18, he studied
music at the Tshwane University of Technology. He now has a Master’s degree in Fine
Arts and is registered on a doctoral programme.
SPIRITUAL TRADITIONS FUEL SOUTH AFRICAN JAzz ARTIST TUMI MOGOROSI'S NEW ALBUM
By Gwen Ansell
Associate of the Gordon Institute for Business Science, University of Pretoria
massed voices echoing the historic style of the
Howard Roberts Chorale. Motuba’s voice is
more subversive: underlined by Khota’s guitar
improvisation, she fractures lyric and phrasing
deliberately to build tension with the choir.
The very distinctive instrumental voices and
the presence of veteran piano guest Andile
Yenana, also interrogate conventional roles
in an ensemble. Who is a leader and who a
composer when each sonic element cedes
and creates space for the ideas of others.
Far less smooth is the sound of the chorus
on
Thaba Bosiu, the track featuring Yenana,
where fragmented textures and that capacity
to “scream” that Mogorosi notes come to the
fore over urgent, imaginative improvisation
from drums, guitar, piano and bass. The track
is faded out (it’s a long album), but that’s the
one I wanted more of.
The theory
The theoretical underpinnings of the album
are many. The title,
Group Theory: Black
Music, foregrounds three: association, identity
and closure. But, there is nothing dry and
theoretical about the sound. It’s warm, human
and at points more tuneful than some of
Mogorosi’s previous work.
The drummer quotes jazz historian and critic
Amiri Baraka’s proposition about the “New
Black Music” of another era – “Find the self,
then kill it” – to point to the collective and global
struggle to generate new identities, ideas
and sounds from those who were previously
hemmed in.
The closing track,
Where Are the Keys ?,
with the prominent presence of veterans
Yenana and Rampolokeng, and the poet’s
encyclopedic stringing together of all the
music’s sonic, intellectual and revolutionary
influences, ties everything together.
Reading the poetry (which is supplied) is
a rich source of perspectives for all kinds of
thinking beyond the edges of a record. The
situation of war, poverty, but also creativity into
which the music is published means that, right
now, closure isn’t an answer; it’s a question
too:
“
Slash that … vinyl scratch/ The pain slides
through the gash/ Tripping off morning horns/
Past the dawning…”
This article was first published on The Conversation.
The theoretical
underpinnings of the
album are many. The
title, Group Theory: Black
Music, foregrounds
three: association,
identity and closure. But,
there is nothing dry and
theoretical about the
sound. It’s warm, human
and at points more tuneful
than some of Mogorosi’s
previous work.

UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 28
110
 | LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE |
Issue 28 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  111
Number 26 – Babylonstoren
What if you could actually visit the Garden of Eden? And what if it was
surrounded by vineyards, historic Cape Dutch farm buildings, and a
formal French-style potager garden, where you could pick your own
strawberries and fragrant herbs?
At Babylonstoren, in the Drakenstein Valley, 33 miles northeast of
Cape Town, the mythical garden comes to life. Founded in 1690, the
590-acre compound is modelled on the farms that supplied the ships
making their way around the Cape of Good Hope en route to India.
The cottages and suites are minimalist but stylish. You won’t find
a grand lobby or an obsequious concierge here, but the staff, most
of whom are wearing T-shirts, aprons, or khakis, combine a genuine
eagerness to help with a high level of knowledge about the farm and
its long history.
Stay long enough and eventually ‒ after a visit to the on-site bakery,
the winery, the cheesemaker, the butcher and the farm-tank-style
swimming pool ‒ you may forget that you’re staying at a hotel.
Number 38 – One&Only Cape Town
Cape Town’s only urban resort One&Only has a prime Waterfront
location next door to the Two Oceans Aquarium and is within strolling
distance of the Water Shed, an indoor market filled with must-have
local designer brands.
Much more of a resort than a hotel, it has space in abundance
and everything is dramatically scaled, including the reception lobby
leading into Vista Bar and Lounge, the social heart of the hotel where
cocktails, high tea and light meals are served in great style.
Triple-volume glass windows frame views of Table Mountain, and
the air is infused with a distinctive woody room fragrance – something
you remember instantly as a returning guest. The spa is a destination
in its own right, situated on its own island, with 12 treatment rooms,
private wet areas and a yoga pavilion in the garden.
Make use of the spa thermal suites, even if you don’t book a
spa treatment. His-and-hers hydrotherapy facilities each have a
vitality pool, aroma-steam room, sauna, ice fountain and experience
showers.
Number 42 – Cape Cadogan Boutique Hotel
This elegant 15-room Georgian-era townhouse is tucked away in a
residential street in Gardens, a fashionable, upbeat neighbourhood
known for its restaurants, bars and interior design shops.
Table Mountain forms a majestic backdrop, and Lion’s Head
beckons. From the outside, Cape Cadogan looks like a beautiful
private home complete with crisp white paintwork, black shutters,
manicured garden and pool terrace.
Step inside and you enter a world of Bohemian chic. It won’t be easy
to find a smart room in such a brilliant location, as slickly managed,
luxurious, or private at this price anywhere else in Cape Town.
www.goodthingsguy.com
Condé Nast Traveler
South African resorts and hotels
among the best in the world
SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS AND HOTELS AMONG THE BEST IN THE WORLD
For their 35th annual Readers’ Choice Awards survey, a record 600 000 registered
Condé Nast Traveler voters weighed in on their favourite resorts and hotels in the
world.The Condé Nast Traveler Readers’ Choice Awards are the longest-running and
most prestigious recognition of excellence in the travel industry. Here are the South
African resorts and hotels that global trotters loved most this year:
SOUTH AFRICAN RESORTS AND HOTELS AMONG THE BEST IN THE WORLD
Number 7 – Singita Sabi Sand
Singita Sabi Sand includes three well-appointed options that
provide an elegant base from which to bask in the natural beauty
of one of South Africa’s most renowned game reserves.
Singita’s founding property, Ebony Lodge, sits surrounded
by a grove of its namesake trees, with 12 suites inspired by old
explorers’ camps. Boulders Lodge, meanwhile, was named after
the ancient rocks strewn along the banks of the Sand River, and
the 12 glass-fronted suites have artfully pared-down interiors,
featuring fossilised tree stumps and other found objects.
And Castleton Lodge occupies the ancestral home of Singita
founder Luke Bailes. Its Cape Dutch charm, mullioned windows,
antiques, expert safari guides, and longtime family staff remain ‒
but the wine cellar, state-of-the-art kitchen, and full gym are all
new.
Number 20 – Grootbos Private Nature Reserve
For a long time, lodges in South Africa tended to be geared toward
the Big Five. Grootbos, on the fynbos slopes near Walker Bay,
south of Cape Town, is different.
This 6,177-acre private reserve is about treasuring the smaller,
finer things. With 889 plant species, seven of which are newly
discovered, it is first and foremost a rare botanical treasure trove,
in which owner Michael Lutzeyer has employed some of the
Cape’s leading botanists and entomologists.
The lodges are glassy and contemporary, but there’s a constant
call outdoors ‒ from the outside showers to tracking elusive
aardvark and Cape leopard, or having lantern-lit dinners in a
1,000-year-old milkwood forest, all fairy-tale tangles.
You can ride horses across the sands, past ancient sea caves;
go on flower safaris, tree-planting expeditions, and whale-watching
flights to see the calving Southern right whales that migrate inshore
between July and December.
Most of the food on the carbon-negative reserve is grown on
site, and nothing comes from more than 30 miles away, with many
of the staff graduates of the in-house hospitality academy.
But the main takeaway of Grootbos is that just stopping and
looking ‒ at the interconnectedness and mad beauty of life ‒ is the
most mesmerising thing of all.
Condé Nast Traveler also released
the list of the best hotels in the
world and South Africa took three
places in this category.