seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/ibsa_trrinity_of_the_south_report_2022.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/ibsa_trrinity_of_the_south_report_2022.pdf
title: ibsa_trrinity_of_the_south_report_2022.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Democracies for
Development
Research and Information System
for Developing Countries
TriniTy
Of The SOuTh
A Report by Four Prominent Think Tanks from IBSA

Research and Information System
for Developing Countries
Democracies for
Development
TriniTy
Of The SOuTh

Core IV–B, Fourth Floor, India Habitat Centre
Lodhi Road, New Delhi–110 003, India
Tel.: +91–11–24682177–80, Fax: +91–11–24682173–74
E–mail: dgoffice@ris.org.in
Website: www.ris.org.in
© RIS, 2022
Research and Information System
for Developing Countries
Published by:
ISBN: 81-7122-172-6
Acknowledgements
This report has been prepared by RIS research team led by Professor Sachin Chaturvedi,
Director General, RIS. The research team comprised of Professor S. K. Mohanty, Dr Sabyasachi
Saha, Dr Beena Pandey, Dr Amit Kumar, Dr Pankhuri Gaur, Mr Arun Nair, Dr Kapil Patil,
and Ms Chandni Dawani. Our sincere thanks to Professor Anuradha Chenoy, Former Dean,
School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, India, for her contribution in
the report.
We are grateful to Dr Seshadri Chari, Member, Governing Council, RIS; Ambassador Anil
Sooklal, IBSA Sherpa, South Africa; and Professor Vera Thorstensen,  Professor, Sao Paulo
School of Economics-FGV, for their very substantive articles in the Eminent Voices section.
We also deeply appreciate the contributions made by Dr Letlhogonolo Mashilo, South Africa;
and Mr Victor Vieira, Brazil as co-authors in the Eminent Voices Section.
Thanks are also due to Ambassador Amar Sinha, Distinguished Fellow, RIS; Professor
Elizabeth Sidiropoulos, SAIIA, South Africa; Dr Philani Mthembu, IGD, South Africa; Dr Ivan
Tiago Machado Oliveira, IPEA; Dr Jose Eduardo Malta de Sa Brandao, IPEA for their insightful
comments on the Report. We are deeply grateful to SAIIA, South Africa; IGD, South Africa;
and IPEA, Brazil for partnering with us in the conceptualization and publication of this Report.
We are also thankful to Mr Mahesh C. Arora, Advisor (Finance and Administration) for
arranging review comments and constructive feedback
 from Ms Ines Tofalo and Mr Bhushan
Shrestha from UNOSSC on IBSA Trust Fund chapter. We also thanks to Ms Ivy Roy Sarkar,
Fellow, RIS for her editorial assistance and to the RIS publication unit for bringing out the
Report in an elegant manner.
We deeply appreciate the support received from the Ministry of External Affairs, Government
of India for organizing the Seventh IBSA Academic Forum in 2021 and in our efforts to
consolidate academic partnerships across IBSA which has resulted in publication of this
report.

Trinity of the South: Democracies for DevelopmentIBSA Report 2021
Preface by Professor Sachin Chaturvedi, Director General, RIS V
Chapters
•	 Chapter I: Introduction 1
•	 Chapter II: IBSA and Global Geo-strategies 7
•	 Chapter III: Surging Regional Economic Partnership:
       Triangular Cooperation in IBSA Trade 15
•	 Chapter IV: IBSA Cooperation for Global Governance
      of Trade, Climate Change, Health and Biodiversity 43
•	 Chapter V: Inclusive Development Paradigm:
Core of Socio-Economic Sector  63
•	 Chapter VI: IBSA Fund - Reflections and New Vision 77
Eminent Voices
•	 Chapter VII: IBSA’s Uniqueness and Role vis-à-vis BRICS 93
•	 Chapter VIII: IBSA and the Challenges of the New Geopolitical Order 99
•	 Chapter IX: IBSA and Africa’s Development Agenda  111
Key Recommendations  117
Contents

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
IBSA Report 2021
Professor Sachin Chaturvedi
Director General, RIS
Preface
RIS has been among the early contributors to intellectual partnerships for
promoting IBSA cooperation in the realms of trade, investment, social sector
development and at multilateral forums. This journey has only enriched in
the years following the formation of the IBSA Dialogue Forum with specific
inputs to the IBSA Summit Process. In recent years, RIS has organized the
Sixth and Seventh IBSA Academic Forum in 2019 in the physical format and in
2021 in a virtual format. Historically, for the past several years, RIS has been
engaged in organizing IBSA Academic Forum in close partnership with the
leading think-tanks of respective IBSA countries. In the wake of the COVID-19
pandemic and subsequent economic downturn and social vulnerabilities, the
Seventh IBSA Academic Forum (11-12 August 2021) had devoted substantial
attention to rediscovering economic partnerships in IBSA; reinvigorating IBSA
cooperation on development; IBSA at UN and future multilateralism; access to
finance and economic recovery; cooperation in trade and resilient value chains;
and creating post-pandemic resilience through technology and inclusive social
sector development.
To deepen the understanding on some of these issues RIS partnered with
South African Institute of International Affairs (SAIIA), Institute for Global
Dialogue (IGD), South Africa; and the Institute for Applied Economic Research
(IPEA), Brazil who have been our longstanding partners to bring out the present
comprehensive Report, ‘Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development.
The report has collection of research studies undertaken by the eminent
policymakers, academicians and RIS research team which focus on issues such
as IBSA and global geo-strategies, triangular cooperation in IBSA trade, climate
change, health and biodiversity cooperation, social inclusion, IBSA Fund,
among others. Cross-cutting emphasis has been placed on the post-pandemic
world order, macroeconomic challenges and economic cooperation, South-
South Cooperation and State-Civil Society partnerships, why the world needs
IBSA and what IBSA has achieved in the past. Eminent Voices from IBSA have
added their incisive analysis on IBSA’s uniqueness and its role vis-à-vis BRICS;
IBSA and the challenges of the new geopolitical order; and IBSA and Africa’s
development agenda. I thank our partners and all eminent contributors for
immensely supporting this initiative.

This Report brings out distinct facets of the IBSA partnership and its enduring
relevance in a post-pandemic world. It reaffirms IBSA as a unique grouping of
three large democracies and major economies from three different continents,
which is founded on the principles, norms and values of participatory democracy,
respect for human rights, the Rule of Law and towards strengthening of
multilateralism. These principles have much greater relevance in the present
times. Since its inception, IBSA has played a very important role in terms of its
contribution to the agenda of Global South both at political and economic fronts.
Over the years, the IBSA Forum has emerged as a key champion of
strengthening multilateralism and promoting southern solidarity driven by
sheer historical experiences of voicing concern of the southern world at global
fora. The Forum brings together like-minded countries committed to promoting
inclusive development and well-being of all, guided by the principles, norms
and values and democratic traditions. Therefore, IBSA countries are natural
allies in promoting just international order, sustainable and participatory global
governance and strengthening of the multilateralism.
We hope this Report would be found useful by academics, policymakers and
those who are interested in taking forward the IBSA process.
Sachin Chaturvedi

1
The post-Pandemic World Order
and IBSA
T
he post-Pandemic world shall be different
as countries are in search of greater societal
resilience and sustainable prosperity. The
unfolding of recent events comes on the back of
protracted period of distraction in global affairs
where the slow decaying of multilateralism led
to severe trust deficits and fragile partnerships
that were unable to create a meaningful impact
on lives and livelihoods across developing
regions. The post-war world order, despite the
hegemonic dominance of early industrialized
nations, also witnessed realignment in the
developing world towards a more rule-based
world order, as well as regional partnerships,
even though ambitions and capacities remained
low. While economic interests were dominant,
closer cooperation in the South emerged from
solidarity as well as recognition of the fact
that the marginalization of Southern voices
was more a norm than an exception. Larger
inter-governmental institutions that were set
up remained flawed in design. As they have
disappointed the Southern economies in terms
of enabling them to address the immediate
challenges like climate change finance or even
the additional finance needed for coping with
shrinking fiscal space. Nevertheless, several
countries of the South have emerged through
relative successful endeavours in catch-up even
as capacities remain widely heterogeneous.
Political necessities continue to remain
important as the world seeks solutions not only
for a sustainable future but also for global peace
and security amid rising threats. The inadequate
and biased global governance agenda leaves
a lot of room for non-state actors and public
bad in terms of environmental damage to
proliferate. Such impending challenges of the
new century were felt at the turn of the century
itself. Slow and unsatisfactory delivery of the
post-war institutions was already on record.
The convergence of concerns and aspirations
led to several new partnerships that seized the
imaginations of respective leaders. One such
partnership was IBSA which was created in
2003. While a few years of a relative slowdown
in interactions have been unfortunate, we
observe that there have been sincere attempts at
the political level to reinvigorate the partnership
again in the last few years. This is evident from
the fact that apart from the trilateral commission
meetings, IBSA has issued three joint statements
on issues of topmost priority and consideration
to the group, launched a fellowship programme
Introduction1

2
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
for scholars and organized several tracks 2.0
activities including the Academic Forum as well
as the lecture series.
As we discuss, IBSA’s role and relevance
under contemporary geo-political realities,
there is a greater focus on human security,
humanitarian values, democratic and
sustainable development where the three
countries can set an example through assertive
and common positions at most multilateral
fora and at the same time secure their national
interests. The IBSA Joint Statement on the
Reform of the Multilateral System of 2019
states “the reform of the international economic
governance architecture, including the World
Trade Organisation (WTO) and the international
financial institutions, should also be a priority.”
It further states that “IBSA countries have
contributed meaningfully in making the
international economic governance architecture
more representative and democratic, and will
continue to work together to advance an agenda
that promotes sustainable development and
inclusive growth.”
Macroeconomic Challenges and
Economic Cooperation
IBSA continues to be an expanding dynamic
regional grouping with a cumulative GDP
of around $5.9 trillion. The three countries
enjoyed buoyant growth in the first decade of
the century before the global financial crisis.
Thereafter, the growth prospects have remained
heavily muted though sectoral resilience and
newer areas of competence emerged. Muted
economic growth and recessionary pressure
in these three countries also partly reversed
the rising per capita incomes for the group.
This perhaps accentuates challenges facing
social sector development in IBSA given their
development levels, social vulnerabilities
and income inequalities. Given the similar
development status as well as by virtue of the
fact that IBSA countries are large diversified
emerging and regional economic hubs, there
were clear intentions to have closer economic
ties through trade and investment cooperation.
The plank of South-South Cooperation was
strongly based on economic objectives so that
the three countries can have greater intra-
regional trade and investment flows, driven
by their size of economies, distinct sectors of
competence, and institutional framework for
macroeconomic management and trading
capacities. However, this has remained a rather
incomplete task given divided political attention
towards core economic cooperation issues.
IBSA countries have, however, consolidated
their positions as important trading partners
for several countries in their regions as well
as for larger trading nations and the process
has deepened since the formation of the
group. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic
and an unprecedented economic shock and
disruptions, macroeconomic stability; social
sector cushions; livelihood loss; resilience
of supply chains and external dependence;
domestic competitiveness and capacities are all
being evaluated in many developing countries
including in IBSA. The IBSA countries are
among the hardest hit by the pandemic both
in terms of lives and livelihoods. The ensuing
economic downturn has been severe, yet certain
parameters of macroeconomic resilience in
IBSA e.g. forex reserves augur well in such
unprecedented times and economic recovery
is reassuring. Intra-IBSA economic cooperation
with a sharp sectoral focus in the mid-to-long
term can be built on existing foundations of
economic exchanges and by leveraging the
continued dialogue in a trilateral setting. The
sporadic pattern of economic linkages as well as
inertia can be overcome through a reassessment
of economic opportunities in the group which
by all measures appear highly encouraging.
South-South Cooperation and State-
Civil Society Partnerships
The documented history of South-South
Cooperation suggests clear trends. It is also

3
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
suggested that regional needs play an important
role in forging such partnerships to overcome
common and specific challenges. The legacy
of post-colonialism, in addition to a sense
of solidarity has been the driving force for
some of these partnerships. All three IBSA
countries were part of the Buenos Aires Plan
of Action on SSC in 1978. IBSA remains one
of the most prominent examples of South-
South Cooperation despite of continental
distance between member countries. Political
necessities, natural affinities and democratic
governance architecture brought IBSA together.
The IBSA brought together three important
countries from respective continents that
remain crucial for setting the global economic
and political governance narrative based
on the fact that they are large economies as
well as politically relevant countries in their
respective regions. The IBSA Declaration on
South-South Cooperation of 2018 reiterates
“the basic principles of SSC were particularly
emphasised in the IBSA Summit Declaration
of 2010 in Brasilia. It underscored SSC as a
common endeavour of peoples and countries of
the South. It outlined IBSA partnership based
amongst equals which are guided by principles
of respect for national sovereignty; national
ownership and independence; equality; non-
conditionality; non-interference in domestic
affairs; and mutual benefit.”
However, it is not enough to have the
economic and political capital to be able to realize
the potential benefit of a partnership. There
has to be distinct vision, precise articulation,
advocacy and the right intentions behind
such endeavours. IBSA seemed to satisfy all
to emerge as a true South-South Partnership.
The initial enthusiasm was extremely forward-
looking and reassuring for the developing
world. In the subsequent years, importance
accorded to political necessities as well as the
foundational views on common developmental
narrative fell weak. While access to resources
as well as economic engagements attained
greater attention from a pure prosperity-
driven worldview, extraneous developments
in the form of economic and financial stress
led to the conflict of interests as well as
incoherent partnerships. The slow acceptance
of development centrality in multilateral
processes deflected attention and weakened
partnerships that had development at its core.
The political imperatives remained critical but
were not sufficient to fully sustain partnerships.
IBSA suffered from this inertia. In this context,
it needs to be noted that IBSA recognized the
limitations of having pure ‘economic drivers’ or
‘political compulsions’ as the key movers of the
partnership given geo-strategic uncertainties
quite early. This perhaps prompted the creation
of platforms to connect with larger civil society
beyond the State or the ‘markets’. The modest
actions taken in this direction include setting
up of six People-to-People Forums under IBSA.
They include, Parliamentary Forum, Women’s
Forum, Academic Forum, Local Governance
Forum, Business Forum, Editors’ Forum and a
Tri-nation Forum on MSME. It is encouraging
that both IBSA Academic Forum as well as IBSA
Women’s Forum was held this year.
IBSA: The Necessity of the Globe
IBSA countries have been denied the much
desired role at one of the most important global
decision making platforms namely the UN
Security Council. Their individual claims on the
horse shoe remain undiminished in the quest
for reasonable and representative architecture
to guide consensus on global peace. The reform
of the pivotal inter-governmental institution
i.e. the UN remains top of the agenda for IBSA.
The expansion of the Security Council and
democratisation of the UN need to be reflective
of contemporary world realities. The existing
membership structure is unfortunately self-
defeating and unsuitable to carry forward the
mandate of multilateralism and participatory
global governance. IBSA countries have
reaffirmed their position through the IBSA

4
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Joint Ministerial Statement on Reform of the
UN Security Council in 2020. It stated among
other things “In light of the increasingly complex
and inter-connected international challenges, we
emphasize that the existing international governance
structure is obsolete and cannot be fit-for-purpose
to effectively address current peace and security
challenges. Emphasizing that while a comprehensive
reform of the United Nations system remains a
crucial international undertaking, on which there
has been some progress, we reiterate that advancing
the reform of the Security Council should remain an
urgent and key priority.”
The three IBSA countries have considerable
outreach among peer developing nations
and regional priorities concerning trade and
development cooperation initiatives. They
have also been playing very important roles
in regional security and stability and have
demonstrated maturity and responsibility as
a part of the global governance mechanisms
across a variety of sectors. They are important
members and constituencies in both G20 and
the BRICS and have taken a keen interest to
promote a multilateral trading system through
the WTO. They also have important roles in
placing development priorities and access-
related inequities in global conventions and
processes on climate and sustainability including
UNFCCC and the CBD. It is important to note
that IBSA remains a key force in coalitions like
the BASIC to promote and propagate climate
just policies.
Given the similar nature of socio-economic
challenges impacting the societies of the
three IBSA countries, wherein issues such
as affordable basic healthcare, safe drinking
water, food and nutrition security, affordable
housing, energy security, environmental
protection and biodiversity conservation are
prevalent; there is an imperative to orient
scientific research and innovation towards
developing technological solutions to address
these challenges. In this endeavour, it would
be important to do so in a responsible manner
by adhering to the principles of Access, Equity
and Inclusion (AEI). Such an approach would
foster inclusive development, where the fruits
of STI-led interventions are available and
accessible to the wider population especially
the disadvantaged and marginalized sections of
the society. India has come out with a Scientific
Social Responsibility (SSR) policy recently
towards this aspiration. Brazil and South Africa
too have been making institutional efforts to
align their scientific research and innovation for
meeting social needs. The three IBSA countries
can work together on this front and develop a
Responsible Innovation framework with the
Southern perspective.
IBSA: Changing Contours of International
Trade
We may recall that India, Brazil and South
Africa (IBSA) have individually and collectively
championed the cause of promoting fair
trade and supported the developing country
coalitions and initiatives at the World Trade
Organization (WTO) for ensuring a rule-based
global trading system. Besides leading the
developing country’s voice in the WTO on
various agreements at different points of time,
IBSA countries have managed to use disparate
country-specific concerns to their advantage,
and strongly advocate the linking of trade with
the larger developmental aspirations of the
WTO Members. That was perhaps the dominant
paradigm that prompted them to make
persistent efforts to reinforce the development
agenda in the Doha Round of WTO trade
negotiations. They fought for sufficient policy
space for WTO Members belonging to the
Global South to ensure the development of their
industries in the process of market opening in
international industrial goods trade.
The three countries were part of the
‘outreach’ group (O5) of leading developing
countries (India, Brazil, South Africa, China
and Mexico) at the G8 meetings including of
talks on trade and climate change. India, Brazil
and South Africa raised issues related to WTO

5
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
negotiations in the G8+O5 meetings in 2007
and 2008. In this context, they emphasised
the importance of ‘Special and Differential
Treatment’ in agriculture negotiations as
well as the significance of ‘Less Than Full
Reciprocity’ principle in industrial goods to
ensure adequate policy space and flexibilities
for developing countries, and greater reduction
commitments by developed nations. With
regard to climate change talks, they stressed
the need for acceptance and implementation
of the principle of ‘common but differentiated
responsibility and respective capabilities
between the developed and developing worlds’.
IBSA Trust Fund
The IBSA Trust Fund, launched in 2003, marks
an exemplary model of South-South cooperation
that supports developing and least developed
countries (LDCs) of the Global South to achieve
their broad development objectives. In line
with the IBSA forum’s vision and commitment
to promoting multilateralism in global policy
and decision-making apparatus, the IBSA
Fund represents a unique instrument for
advancing multilateral solutions to problems of
development including the fight against extreme
poverty and hunger. Borne out of the need to
address shared developmental challenges in the
fellow developing countries, the IBSA Fund has
emerged as a unique expression of Southern
solidarity and helped partner countries to
achieve sustainable and inclusive development.
Towards this end, the IBSA Fund has played
a vital role in strengthening South-centric
developmental cooperation and also brought
new gravitas to the IBSA partnership. The
Fund’s successful journey is evident through
completion of about 35 projects in 31 countries.
So far, the Fund has accumulated about $39.43
million in annual contributions which is being
administered through the UN Office of South-
South Cooperation (UNOSSC), a special body
under the UN Development Programme
(UNDP).
The projects under IBSA Fund are
implemented on the basis of the perceived
developmental needs of the recipient countries
and focus on activities ranging from skill
development, knowledge transfer, capacity
building, and delivering technological and
institutional solutions. Furthermore, the
national ownership of the projects means that
recipient countries are fully responsible for
implementing the project and in turn, helps
to enhance trust among IBSA and partner
countries. Over time, the IBSA Fund has
undoubtedly proven its value in fulfilling the
developmental needs of partner countries in the
Global South and to leveraging the synergies
among the three emerging economies for
improving livelihoods and institutional capacity
building in partner countries. The IBSA Fund’s
focus on enhancing resilience against a host of
societal and environmental challenges is also of
great essence amidst the growing uncertainty
surrounding climate change, the ongoing
COVID-19 pandemic, and the fragility of the
global value chains. Given the disproportionate
impacts on Southern countries from these
challenges, the opportunity beckons for IBSA
Fund to deepen its developmental mandate
and work towards addressing new inequities
ushered due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Future Ahead
While, the Pandemic has left deep scars on the
lives and livelihoods of ordinary citizens across
the world with severe repercussions in terms
of potential delays in achieving the SDGs – the
fallouts would have severe implications for
South Asia, Latin America and Africa to which
the IBSA countries belong. IBSA countries have
themselves been severely impacted by the
pandemic but continue to inspire hope for their
respective regions. The perspective that IBSA
remains anchored in the development needs of
the South gets further reinforced through post-
pandemic considerations of equitable access
to resources as well as effective roles in global
governance. The widespread lockdowns on

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
6
economic activity in the wake of the pandemic
did not however diminish the global peace
and security challenges. Rather most recent
developments leave a spectre of extreme
uncertainty with instabilities and conflicts
spreading in old and new regions. It is rather
unfortunate that emerging multipolarity also
throws up new and distinct challenges leading
to geo-political competition and contestations.
At this juncture when various processes are
underway to revive and reform the WTO, IBSA
cannot choose to remain indifferent. Unfortunate
rise in protectionism, as well as wild run of the
pandemic, necessitates reorienting trade for
more widespread gains. The WTO centrality
of the world trade governance cannot be
undermined. IBSA needs to reengage on several
reform proposals as well as negotiates on new
issues for rediscovering IBSA purpose in the
first place as a reliable voice of the Global South.
To reflect the realities of the contemporary
world and the challenges faced by the
developing countries and LDCs and to make
the global governance architecture inclusive
and responsive, the three IBSA countries have
been cooperating ever since the inception of
the trilateral grouping. The three countries
cooperated on the issue of ensuring access
and benefit-sharing (ABS) within the CBD
mechanism (which was eventually agreed
with the adoption of the Nagoya Protocol) and
have also been arguing for the review of Article
27.3 (b) regarding the protection of Traditional
Knowledge to address the serious concern of
misappropriation and bio-piracy. On the issue
of global health governance too, the three IBSA
countries have been cooperating for a long time
and this cooperation was very much evident
during the Doha WTO Ministerial wherein
the Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health
was announced. India has recently made
some recommendations towards the WHO
reforms. The cooperation among the three IBSA
countries towards pushing for these reforms
collectively would be pragmatic and timely,
especially in this post-COVID-19 era.
The IBSA countries are unequivocally
supportive of the UNFCCC process, and
its key instruments like the Kyoto Protocol
and Paris Agreement under the principle of
Common but Differentiated Responsibilities
and Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC).
In recognition of the urgency to mitigate
adverse climate change impacts, the IBSA
countries are broadly supportive of responsible,
comprehensive, urgent, and ambitious actions
on climate change, including in the urban
environment. In addition to their national plans
and commitments, IBSA countries recognize
the need for accessing finance and cutting-
edge technologies to transition towards a low-
carbon economy. Given the large cost of these
transitions especially in the Global South, the
IBSA priorities for the forthcoming climate
change summit (COP26) include a sound
commitment from developed countries to fulfill
their pledges on climate finance commitments.
In particular, IBSA’s push for ensuring access
to low-cost finance and technologies would be
vital towards addressing acute developmental
challenges faced by developing countries and
also widen the spirit of both North-South and
South-South partnerships.
The instrument of the IBSA Trust Fund
has already demonstrated the success of the
IBSA partnership in promoting developmental
cooperation and enabling the weaker countries
to achieve common and minimum standards
of sustainable and inclusive development.
The projects completed under the IBSA Fund
show that even modest developmental support
provided via the transfer of knowledge,
skills, and technologies can go a long way in
addressing the perceived needs of developing
partner countries and making a genuine effort
towards reducing global inequities. The focus
of IBSA Fund projects on various interlinked
SDGs such as poverty, hunger, and access to
clean energy, drinking water, healthcare, and
food systems has generated significant value
addition and the availability of low-cost finance
and technologies for developing countries can
meaningfully complement the efforts of IBSA
Fund.

7
Introduction
T
he IBSA Forum of three countries India-
Brazil-South Africa from the three
continents that form the Global South
tasks itself to voice the collective interests of the
South in international forums and international
politics on issues of peace, security and
development. The distinguishing feature
of IBSA is that it is a grouping of emerging
economies committed to participatory
democracy and rule based international
order. In a world that is increasingly polarised,
where forces of religious fundamentalism
and authoritarianism are raising their heads
and democratic values are under attack, the
role of the IBSA partnership is valuable. The
importance of IBSA rises in an international
context of changing geo-strategies that impact
an increasingly intersecting world. This is
a context where the US has pulled out of
Afghanistan and Afghan State power has
shifted to hands forces that believe in violent
capture and enforcement of power and
geopolitical competition has sharpened in the
Indo-Pacific.
Even as there was a spill over of conflict
from Afghanistan to the region around and
far beyond, the reality is an international the
challenge for security and human security.
Similarly, the naval fleets as well as important
commercial shipping lanes support the
economic lifeline of the three IBSA countries.
IBSA developed interests in broader foreign
policy and economic development issues.
Regular interactions amongst its leaders and
convergence of vision, goals and strategies
make IBSA an important dialogue forum for
its members. All these issues are relevant
and vital currently. The key goal of IBSA is its
commitment to UN Reforms and the expansion
of the Security Council.
IBSA countries, while being committed to the
democratisation of the UN as a whole, believe
that the UNSC does not reflect the current
world realities. The membership structure of
the UNSC inherited after World War II has
become anachronistic and defies logic. In its
current form, by keeping the Global South
out of the international decision-making and
with its permanent members enjoying veto
power, the UNSC is not as effective as it should
be in securing peace and security. The non
representative character of the UNSC affects
its capacity and legitimacy (Amorim, 2011).
IBSA believes that the longer the delay in
expanding the UNSC, the greater the difficulties
in achieving the UN mandates of peace,
IBSA and Global
Geo-strategies2

8
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
development and security. In this context,
the paper contends that IBSA can make a
greater mark on international politics, in the
field of human security, humanitarian values,
democratic and sustainable development by
setting an example and by asserting their
positions in multilateral fora and in geo
strategic issues. All these fields are of national
interest to the IBSA. The chapter discusses
the relevance of IBSA in the light of emerging
global priorities, and inter-alia discusses issues
pertaining to reforms of the UN Security
Council, UN Peacekeeping, Responsibility to
Protect (R2P), and Development cooperation.
 Emerging Global Priorities
The IBSA vision is embedded in the ideals
of South-South Co-operation (SSC). Several
points of convergence bring the three countries
together. The focus of IBSA countries has
been on addressing inequities, commitment
to democratic governance, multi-cultural
pluralism, and sustainable development.  In
the international arena, IBSA countries defend
multilateralism, rule-based order and peace;
defend and uphold respect for sovereignty;
remain committed to maintaining a positive
balance in safeguarding both sovereignty and
human rights; promote development of people
and support trade and economic initiatives
between the developing countries of the South.
The IBSA countries have taken a lead for the
development assistance that all three provide,
especially in their region.
Even though they do not coordinate this
assistance with each other, they do follow
similar paradigms of giving economic assistance
to lesser developed countries and has a different
pattern than traditional foreign aid. IBSA
members believe that there is better leverage
in working together for the UN reform and
their inclusion in the UNSC. Since there is no
permanent representation from Africa with 54
countries, the UNSC lacks legitimacy on the
ground especially in Africa. IBSA is the ideal
forum to make convincing arguments for a more
representative UNSC. In 2011, all three IBSA
members were elected as the non-permanent
members of the UNSC and in the coming years
they will once again have their turn as the non-
permanent members of the Security Council.
1
This opportunity for coordinating the push
for reforms and membership to the Security
Council is again opportune.
The logic of IBSA collective forum is that all
three have legitimacy and support from their
peers in the South as well as the North. This
is derived from defending the interests of the
poorest countries (Friesleben, 2008). The shared
political and economic history and development
experiences provide significant heft to broaden
the remit of their engagement (RIS 2016). All
three have significant development and trade
initiatives with southern countries and support
peace initiatives. All three have a proven record
as responsible actors in the international system.
IBSA joined with others to ensure an expansion
of the Group of Seven (G-7) powerful countries
to form the Group of Twenty (G20) which
included several countries that had emerged as
regional economic powerhouses in the World
Trade Organisation (WTO). IBSA along with
China had common positions during the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) and formed the BASIC
group to co-ordinate climate change policies.
IBSA countries are seen to have an enhanced
agency, as Prof. de Almeida of Brazil argued
that they are “out of the classical peripheries
and with a growing influence in Africa...”
(Thalia, 2012). They have a natural coordination
on the international stage, worked together in
the UN, and in various international meetings
on issues of global concerns like development,
climate change and world trade. Since all three
IBSA countries served simultaneously as non-
permanent members of the UNSC in 2011, they
were able to initiate some common positions
on international peace and security. In its most
ambitious initiatives on security cooperation,

9
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
in 2011 IBSA sent a mission to Syria. The
IBSA delegation met with Syrian officials
and expressed grave concern about the use
of force by all concerned parties (MEA 2011).
This experience of the IBSA collective on the
issue of Syria is an example and precedent on
how they can coordinate on the turmoil that is
unfolding in Afghanistan. In a situation where
every major and regional country will carve a
space for itself in a civil war torn region, some
moral authority is required that can provide a
compass for a negotiated settlement. IBSA can
choose to play such a role.
Questions have been raised on the duplication
and relevance of multiple forums with similar
agendas among a few countries. IBSA countries
are members of BRICS also. BRICS has created
economic institutions at a fast pace and some
analysts argue that BRICS has marginalised
IBSA. It is argued that the West sees value in
BRICS (Fraser, 2012). BRICS and IBSA have
developed some coordination, and in the
final declaration at the sixth BRICS summit in
Fortaleza, Brazil, Russia and China reiterated the
importance of IBSA countries in international
affairs and argued that they should play greater
role in the UN and expand UNSC (Sixth BRICS
Summit 2014). BRICS has economic, financial
and infrastructure interests as its goal. The focus
of BRICS countries is on changing the West
dominating financial order and getting a greater
policy-making role for emerging economies
of BRICS. IBSA on the other hand is focussed
on security reforms and reforming the UNSC,
which is not central to the BRICS agenda.
There is a view that counter-poses BRICS and
IBSA with NAM. However, many regional
and multilateral organisations co-exist and are
needed for dialogue and cooperation. There is
no conflict of interests between these groupings.
IBSA countries are members of the G-20. IBSA
is an integral part of G-77 and these counties
have dynamic relationships among themselves.
They initiated a G20 grouping in WTO at Doha
Round. IBSA like G-20 is an informal grouping
of non binding nature and is not a bloc.
IBSA and the Security Council
IBSA countries were at the forefront of debates
that asked  for Security Council reforms since
2000, and more so  since 2008, when the proposals
for ‘Intergovernmental Negotiations’ took on
the task of moving forward the proposals of
the Open-Ended Working Group (on increasing
membership of the UNSC). The latest IBSA
Joint Ministerial Statement on Reform of the
UN Security Council, issued on September 16,
2020, called for the international community
“to redouble efforts and bolster commitment
to achieve tangible progress to an accelerated
and comprehensive reform of the Security
Council” (IBSA Ministerial Statement 2020).
The IBSA forum has consistently championed
the cause of UNSC reforms through successive
ministerial statements and declarations towards
enhancing the representation of emerging and
developing countries in institutions of global
and multilateral governance.
The African Union (AU) has a clear mandate
on the UNSC reforms and opposes in principle
the veto powers of the UNSC members but
believes that while it exists, this power should
be available to all permanent members of the
UNSC.
2 The AU will be mandated to choose
the African representative to the UNSC, based
on its own selection criterion and determined
by the capacity of the one chosen. India and
Brazil have similarly argued that the UNSC is
‘completely out of tune’ with global realities
and does not serve the real international interest
and that it should have representatives from the
three southern continents. India has suggested
a discussion on the use of veto powers which
could lead to consensus.
Pressure from the leading countries of
the South and others has led to a widening
of the UNSC reports that put more focus on
global conflicts. IBSA states have collectively
argued that the UNSC reports should be more
analytical and not just a narration of events.
At the 61
st session of the UNGA (2006-07)
IBSA countries have proposed a vote on the

10
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Working Group on the UNSC reforms. They
proposed ‘Intergovernmental Negotiations’
on reforms, and specifically for an expansion
of the permanent category. IBSA needs to
revive these co-ordinated interventions. IBSA
is different from the Group of Four (G-4) that
consists of India, Germany, Japan and Brazil,
in that it came together to strategise for a seat
in the Security Council. It has strengthened the
positions of its member countries. But the G-4
did not have a representative from Africa and
did not represent the interests of the South.
IBSA, in a way, stands on the shoulders of the
G-4 and works with other groups that want
reforms of global governance.
IBSA and UN Peacekeeping
On the geo-strategic front IBSA’s collective
importance lies in its contribution to UN
Peacekeeping (UNPK). Contribution and
participation in UNPK are part of their foreign
policy interest. UNPK has a normative rationale
and is important for regional and global
security.
• Brazil has contributed to nine missions,
including in Lebanon and Haiti.
• South Africa has been part of 14 international
peace operations and seven in UNPK.
• India is the largest contributor to UNPK
and has participated in more than 44
peacekeeping missions, with a total troop
contribution of nearly 180,000 troops and
a significant number of police personnel.
All three countries have extended different
types of support to peacekeeping. South
Africa’s focus is on peace in Africa and does
not want deployment of its forces outside
Africa. Conflict prevention, mediation and post
conflict reconstruction methods and strategies
are part of South African foreign policy focus.
South Africa works with the AU on peace
keeping. They believe that deployments for
conflict prevention serve political and economic
interests. South Africa has deployed troops in
the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sudan.
India, as a major troop-contributing country,
has asked for more robust measures for UNPK
such as better security and intelligence support.
India has in the past supported an Afghan-led
and Afghan owned peace and reconciliation
process (UN News, 21 November 2013).
Conflicts spill over from conflict sites and
impact the region and beyond. The current
conflicts in West Asia are flowing beyond
the region and impacting Asia and Europe
in multiple ways. IBSA countries argue that
their support for peacekeeping is linked to
development that hinges on peace and security.
IBSA countries have stated that the major
contributors should have a greater say in UNPK
operations. The situation in Afghanistan and
the takeover of the Afghan government by the
Taliban portends ill for India and the entire
world. To maintain peace at a time when
existential threats like climate change, global
pandemics are on the rise, neutral and sensible
voices are of importance. IBSA thus needs far
better co-ordination than that they had in the
past few years, where they have allowed the
forum to get on the back burner.
IBSA and the Responsibility to
Protect (R2P)
The need for states to protect their populations
from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing
and crimes against humanity has been the basis
of debate generated in the UN on the Report -
‘The Responsibility to Protect: The Report of the
International Commission on Humanitarian
Intervention and State Sovereignty, 2001’. This led
to, the United Nations World Summit Outcome
Document (2005).
3 The three R2P pillars are:
• Pillar one: The state has primary
responsibility to protect its population
from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing,
crimes against humanity.
• Pillar two: The international community
must encourage and assist states in
exercising this responsibility.

11
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
• Pillar three: If a state fails to protect
its population from these crimes, the
international community must be prepared
to take collective action to protect that
population, in cooperation with regional
organisations and in accordance to the UN
Charter. (Office of the Special Adviser on the
Prevention of Genocide, ‘The Responsibility
to Protect’, 2015)
Brazil played a lead role in conceptualisation
of R2P.
4 Consequently, in Latin America, the
Organisation of American States (OAS) has the
mandate to step in if a military government
takes over and displaces a civilian one (Fereira,
2012). The founding document of the African
Union i.e. the Constitutive Act 2002 and its
article of 4(h) in 2005 accepted the principle
of protecting human rights and gave the AU
the right to intervene in member states that
committed war crimes, genocide, and crimes
against humanity. Having played a leading
role in developing this concept, the AU in 2005
welcomed and accepted the R2P as a tool to
prevent mass atrocities.
5 In this discussion,
India’s position articulated by its Permanent
Representative puts forward a case for R2P,
where pillar 3 on intervention should be
used only on case by case basis and only after
all measures had failed (Puri, 2011 & 2013).
India linked up with Non-Aligned Movement
(NAM) countries to balance this with the issue
of sovereignty. India accepted R2P after much
debate in 2009, when it convinced members
of the UN that there was a need to raise the
threshold of intervention.
 Differences on the issue of R2P based
intervention are bound to remain. For example,
Brazil and India abstained from the UNSC
resolution (SCR 1973, 2010-2011) which was
supported by South Africa that authorised
the use of force in Libya.
6 IBSA countries have
stated that even when there are human rights
abuses and non-militarist interventions, non-
interference should be upheld. Their position
is to respect the sovereignty and balance it with
a respect for human rights because military
intervention violates rights. IBSA countries
favour multilayered and moderate approach
to R2P and advocate conflict prevention and
resolution through dialogue and engagement,
which are consistent with the foreign policy of
all three countries.
Development Issues
IBSA should expand its development
cooperation programmes for capacity building,
social sector development, and production
development and provide financial support
to other developing countries. As successful
democracies which have strong institutions
such as constitutionally independent bodies
including autonomous election commissions,
independent judiciaries in their countries
and constitutional safeguards of fundamental
individual rights, IBSA should be ready to
share its experience and contribute to capacity
building in sister developing countries. The
IBSA Trust Fund is the facility created for
poverty and hunger alleviation. This has been a
modest three million US dollars a year Fund. Its
utilisation has been mainly on projects related to
sustainable development and the feedback from
the projects has been positive. Some examples
of this funding are:
• Support projects in the State of Palestine,
(Gaza and West Bank)
• Guinea-Bissau: project on agriculture
to train 4,500 farmers, half of whom are
women
• Projects in Vietnam, Laos, Sudan, South
Sudan, etc.
• Cape Verde: support to health units
• Haiti: post earthquake reconstruction.
IBSA countries have committed to the
various international resolutions on gender
equality, to Security Council Resolution 1325
on Women’s participation and leadership
in peace and security. The IBSA Declaration
on South-South Cooperation issued on June

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
12
05, 2018, reiterated the need for balancing
social, economic, and environmental pillars of
sustainable development. Recognising the need
to foster capacity building, transfer of skills
and technologies for sustainable development,
the IBSA declaration underlined the need
for responsible financing for development
cooperation. Furthermore, in March 2021,
with India as the chair at the Sixth IBSA
Forum, commitments were made to the Beijing
Declaration and Platform for Action, 1995 and
to the Sustainable Development Goals.
Way Forward
This chapter has discussed in detail, the avenues
for geo-economic and geo-strategic convergence
between IBSA countries. As a grouping of
Southern democracies, IBSA has time and again
demonstrated its commitment to furthering
peace and development in the global south and
in the wake of emerging challenges to peace
and security emanating from terrorism, the
use of disruptive technologies, IBSA should
review the situation in Afghanistan and revive
cooperation on international terrorism to avoid
Afghan territory to be used by militia groups
for launching terror attacks against others.
IBSA can particularly lead the efforts to prevent
threats from terrorism and violation of human
rights.
On global governance reform and especially
the expansion of UNSC membership, the
IBSA countries could reiterate the demand
for representation from Southern countries
in the UNSC. With many contemporary
security challenges including ethnic strife,
insurgencies, and democratic movements
emerging in different parts of the world, the
meaningful expansion of UNSC is essential
and IBSA countries should proactively support
the intergovernmental negotiations and strive
for a swift decision on modalities of UNSC
reform and expansion. The IBSA countries have
already developed successful cooperation in
areas like maritime security. There is clearly
a strong need for these countries to further
expand cooperation in this sphere and initiate
a dialogue on maintaining free and open
maritime spaces across oceans and continents.
The IBSA conference on peace and security in
the Indo-Pacific would be a timely initiative in
this regard. Such cooperation would also bring
more gravitas to the IBSA forum and take the
cooperation to next level of strategic partnership.
As the Brazilian diplomat Ambassador Amorim,
who played an important role in IBSA and the
expansion of the G-20, stated that: “IBSA was
created as a lighthouse for policy formulation
and SSC” (Amorim, 2011). IBSA has initiated a
process of working closely to achieve a more
representative, democratic and transparent
international system which should be reflected
in the UNSC. IBSA’s strength lies in taking
up and pursuing human security and human
development issues, and representing the
voices of the Global South.
Endnotes
1 RIS (2016), See, IBSA and Global Geo-strategies
in “Trinity for Development, Democracy and
Sustainability”, RIS. 2016. URL: http://www.
ris.org.in/trinity-development-democracy-and-
sustainability.
2 The African Union (AU) position on UN reform is
the Ezulwini consensus
3 The background was the large scale genocide
and war crimes in the conflicts in Somalia (1993)
Rwanda genocide (1994), Kosovo (1999), Darfur
(2003).
4 Brazil proposed the concept of responsibility
while protecting after Libya, SEE, https://www.
sipri.org/node/409.
5  Francis M. Deng, the South-Sudanese diplomat
was one of the early proponents of the concept
and played a vital role in its development and
popularization.
6 See, Karen Smith (2016) for broader tensions in
South Africa’s foreign policy, particularly around
the promotion of human rights. Smith K. South
Africa and the Responsibility to Protect: from
champion to sceptic. International Relations. 2016;
30(3): 391-405. doi: 10.1177/0047117816659596.

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
13
References
Amorim, Celso. 2011. Interview with Osava, Mario, at
http://www.ipsnews.net/2011/06/interview-with-
celso-amorim-quotibsa-is-a-beacon-for-political-
strategising-and-south-south-cooperationquot/.
Chenoy, Anuradha M. 2011. “Countering Militarisation,
Building Peace: The Intersectionality of SCR 1325
and the Responsibility to Protect.”  WISCOMP,
New Delhi.
Fereira, Carlos Enrique Ruiz. 2012. Brazil as a non-
permanent member of the Security Council,
Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES), Germany, available
at: http://library.fes.de/pdf-files/iez/09466.pdf
Fraser, John. 2012. Will BRICS bury IBSA? IPS, at: http://
www.ipsnews.net/2012/12/qa-will-the-brics-bury-
ibsa/.
Friesleben, Jonas. 2008. Reform of the Security Council,
Centre for UN Reforms, available at: http://www.
centerforunreform.org/sites/default/files/Jonas.
pdf.
IBSA. 2018. “IBSA Declaration on South-South
Cooperation”. IBSA Forum. June 05, 2018. Retrieved
from https://www.ibsa-trilateral.org/images/
ministrial%20metting/IBSA%20Declaration%20
on%20South-South%20Cooperation.pdf.
IBSA. 2020. “IBSA Joint Ministerial Statement on Reform of
the UN Security Council”, IBSA Forum, September
16, 2020. Retrieved from http://www.ibsa-trilateral.
org/Foreign%20Ministers/IBSA%20Joint%20
Ministerial%20Statement%20on%20Reform%20
of%20the%20UN%20Security%20Council%202020.
pdf.
Krause, Dan. 2016. It’s Changing After All: India’s Stance
on the Responsibility to Protect, Observer Research
Foundation, New Delhi.
MEA 2011. IBSA delegation calls on President Assad
to discuss situation, Ministry of External Affairs,
August 11, 2011, URL: https://mea.gov.in/press-
releases.htm?dtl/57/IBSA+delegation+calls+on+P
resident+Assad+to+discuss+situation.
Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of
Genocide. 2014. Responsibility to Protect, Available
at: http://www.un.org/en/preventgenocide/
adviser/responsibility.
Puri, Hardeep. 2011. Statement of Government of
India, Ministry of External Affairs on Syria,
available at: http://www.mea.gov.in/
bilateral-documents.htm?dtl/18252/
tatement+by+Ambassador+Hardeep+ . Singh+Pu
ri+during+Briefing+on+the+ Middle+East+Syria+
in+UN+Security+ Council
Puri, Hardeep. 2013. No Good Options in Syria,
Indian Express, op edit, September 10, New Delhi
at: http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/
columns/no-good-options-in-syria/.
RIS. 2016. “IBSA: Trinity for Development, Democracy
and Sustainability”. Research and Information System
for Developing Countries. 2016. Retrieved from http://
www.ris.org.in/trinity-development-democracy-
and-sustainability.
Rousseff, Dilma. 2012. UN General Assembly, at: http://
www.voltairenet.org/article171477.html.
Thalia, Deen. 2012. Interview with Prof. de Almeida,
“Brazil Emerging as key player at UN”, Inter Press
Service, November 8, at: http://www.ipsnews.
net/2012/11/brazil-emerging-as-key-player-at-
u-n/.
UNWSOD. 2005  “The United Nations World Summit
Outcome Document.”

15
Introduction
Resurgence of South during the last two
decades was the outcome of persistent efforts of
certain pressure groups within the developing
countries in a limited manner to empower other
southern states with their narrow resource base.
The trilateral grouping between the southern
countries–India, Brazil, and South Africa (IBSA),
had been actively engaged in the spirit of South-
South Cooperation (SSC) (Arkhangelskaya,
2010). IBSA has been described as ‘central axis
of the South’ and ‘hard core’ of the G-20, paving
the way in shaping the global trade agenda
(White, 2006). The regional members, existing
in three continents, are extending support to
the countries of the South in promoting their
trade and simultaneously strengthening their
own trade with the North-South and South-
South groupings (RIS, 2016). In this context,
the power to strengthen endeavors of southern
states for development by IBSA countries is
very much contingent on their cohesiveness
in working together for south and their own
financial position to support their actions in a
comprehensive manner. For meeting the above
objective, consolidation of trade within IBSA is
of paramount importance.
Since its inception in 2003, IBSA members
have not exercised their foremost attention
to advance intra-regional trade (IRT) in an
aggressive manner. As IBSA members are
large open economies, growing trade between
regional economies could have offered a
sturdier and more resilient surge in trade among
them. The members of the grouping could have
embarked on their existing synergies in diverse
sectors, though they are a set of heterogeneous
economies. Of course, India, Brazil and South
Africa are emerging as regional economic
powers in their respective continents and in
the global South (Lechini, 2007; Kornegay,
2011; Brewster, 2010; Lee and Lee, 2012). Each
of these economies has a distinct specialisation
and can emerge as trade hubs for specific
sectors. Shaw et al (2007) observed that Brazil in
agriculture as well as mining, and South Africa
in global supply chains of automotive parts and
trade in services, can serve as regional hubs
for IBSA. India can serve as a hub for several
sectors including pharmaceuticals, textiles, and
software products. Regional specialisation in
trade, particularly in goods and services can
develop this region as an intensive space for
trade.
Surging Regional
Economic Partnership:
Triangular Cooperation
in IBSA Trade
3

16
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
The group can press for a new trade
geography which can change the texture of
the global trade and can lend support to SSC
(Taylor, 2009; Sandrey and Jensen, 2007). The
effective use of existing PTAs and strengthening
them with the needs of the present time,
regional trade among member countries in
high performing and low hanging sectors of
the region can be prioritised for brisk trade. In
this regard, efforts towards the IBSA mandate
of 2006 for a tri-continental free trade agreement
(FTA) may be initiated on a fast track. The
IBSA initiatives of the trilateral forum and
trilateral commission are making efforts to
pursue FTAs between Mercosur and India;
Mercosur and SACU; SACU and India within
the shortest time horizon (Stephen, 2012). There
was a discussion about a more comprehensive
FTA between countries of SIM-SACU, India,
and Mercosur (Mohanty and De, 2007). With
such a trilateral arrangement covering three
continents, it would open a new vista of trade
opportunities for member countries. Member
countries of SACU and Mercosur can open their
production facilities in India to trade with the
countries in the whole of Asia. Similarly, India
and others can get space in other continents to
promote production and trade activities. This
initiative would promote the deepening of
regional cooperation with trade & investment.
IBSA forum was created to increase trade
between the member countries through
cooperation and to generate considerable
benefits for the region (Bratzel, 2011). Since
then, several initiatives, like the IBSA Working
Group on Trade and Investment, IBSA
Business Forum, have been initiated and
many agreements, like the IBSA Action Plan
on Trade Facilitation for Standards, Technical
Regulations and Conformity Assessment with
formal and informal meetings with public and
private stakeholder, have been signed under the
framework of IBSA to promote regional trade
(IBSA Forum, 2006).
With eight sections in this chapter, we
begin with a review of the macroeconomic
dynamics of the grouping and the impact of
the recession and COVID-19 pandemic on the
macroeconomic fundamentals in section 2.
The next section analyses the trend in trade
liberalisation in IBSA member countries and
identifies sectors that have been liberalised
and protected during different global trade
regimes. Section 4 provides overall trade trends
and structure of IBSA trade with the world
economy. A detailed analysis of the overall
and sectoral intra-regional trade has been
conducted in Section 5 which is followed by an
estimation of trade in strategic sectors such as
Global Value Chains and technology-intensive
sectors in Section 6. The export potential of IBSA
countries is analysed in the region in Section 7
and Section 8 concludes and presents policy
recommendations.
Macroeconomic Dynamics
IBSA is an expanding dynamic regional
grouping with a total GDP of $5.9 trillion,
characterised by high growth and a resilient
economy, which slowed down gradually
in the first episode of the global recession
and more awfully in the second episode of
recession. The region posted high growth in
the range of 5.1 per cent to 6.6 per cent during
the global buoyancy spanning over the period
2003-07. With the onset of the global recession,
the growth performance of the region moved
southwards with an average growth rate of the
region declined from 4.5 per cent in the first
phase (2008-12) to -1.6 per cent in the second
phase (2013-20). In short, the overall growth
performance of the region during the recession
declined to 2.8 per cent in average during the
period of the recession compared to 5.9 per cent
during buoyancy. The continuation of recession
had a major toll on the per capita income of the
region. It increased from just $1 thousand in
2003 to $3.2 thousand in 2011 despite recession
since 2008, but declined significantly to $2.6

17
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
thousand in 2020, showing strong retrogression
of purchasing power in the region, as shown in
Figure 1.
The reasons for sluggish growth rates
registered by different member countries
during the second phase of the recession were
diverse. Summarising the modest growth
performance of South Africa since 2017, AfDB
(2019) found that the growth rate of GDP was
low in 2017 and 2018 on account of numerous
factors confronting the country. Among
others, the country witnessed low sovereign
credit rating and the low public as well as
private investment in these years. Growth
performances of the manufacturing and
services sectors were subdued and contributed
marginally to already low GDP growth.
However, household consumption was buoyant
and favourable drought conditions in several
provinces contributed marginally to the growth
of the agricultural sector and hence to GDP
growth. There was marginal improvement in
the country’s GDP growth in 2018 and 2019.
Similarly, the economic situation in Brazil
continued to be under strain on account of
the pressure of the prolonged recession. Since
the Euro Zone Crisis, Brazil grappled with
several changes such as worsening of fiscal
stability, unabated corruption, surging of
ageing population, crowding out of private
investment by the public investment, absence of
a well-developed financial market, low saving,
contributing to a considerable level of volatility
in its growth performances (Mohanty et al.,
2019; OECD, 2018). Schrooten (2011) observed
that India was a resilient economy when the
recession struck the world economy. In the
first year of recession in 2008, the growth rate
was subdued but it overcame the pressure by
posting a higher growth rate in 2009.
However, India faced an unprecedented
growth debacle in 2020 and such development
challenges have affected India since 2017. OECD
(2019b, 2021) observed that the recent problems
Figure 1: Resilience of IBSA in Selected Macroeconomic Variables
Source: Authors estimation based on World Development Indicators, World Bank, 2021

18
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
relating to GDP growth were due to low level
of private investment, relatively high debt ratio,
rising unemployment, growing non-performing
assets in the banking sector, surging inflationary
spiral and high interest rate, among others.
However, India’s GDP growth rebounded in
2021 with growth rate posted at 20.1 per cent
in the first quarter of 2021 (GoI, 2021a). The
growth surge was due to pent-up demand
for consumer and investment goods, export
surge, accelerated manufacturing growth,
rising household consumption, growing Gross
Fixed Capital Formation (GFCM) and surging
activities in the construction, manufacturing,
and hotel industry (OECD, 2021; GoI, 2021a).
The employment situation remained grim in
the region during different trade regimes where
the growth rate of the labour force was reported
at 1.7 per cent during buoyancy and slumped
down to 0.3 per cent during the entire period of
recession. Though the population growth rate
declined persistently for the region, it remained
much higher than the growth rate of the labour
force, showing a bleak employment situation
in the region. The resource gap of the region
between savings and investment continued to
be low during the recession but the resource
base was partially supported by the inflow of
FDI and remittances. The inflow of FDI was
buoyant during 2003-11 and turned out to be
recessionary on a continuous basis during 2012-
19 except for the years 2014 and 2018 because
of the low base of the FDI inflows.
With a view to raise inclusive growth,
employment and the environment of innovation,
India undertook a series of reform measures
with changing regulations and launching
several innovative schemes like ‘Make-in-India’
to facilitate the inflow of FDI for several sectors.
Efforts are made to facelift business conditions
in the country to facilitate the transfer of
technology and increasing productivity in
the manufacturing and other related sectors
(OECD, 2019a).
The region is known for its strong adherence
to the external sector, but the efficacy of the
sector was adversely affected by the recent spate
of recession. In the acute phase of the global
recession, the region’s openness touched nearly
50 per cent of GDP and the region witnessed its
growing share in the trade sector during the
last two decades. The region was having a total
trade of $1.6 trillion dollars in 2020 and crossed
$1.9 trillion in 2018.
During the period of buoyancy, exports
compounded at the rate of 24.4 per cent, but
the growth rate declined substantially to 8.5
per cent during the first phase of recession
and further entered the red zone in the form
of a negative growth rate in the second phase
of recession. Region’s imports are found to be
more sensitive to the global trade regimes than
exports. The experience of the region indicates
that imports grow much faster than exports
during buoyancy and declines faster than
exports during the recession. This syndrome in
the trade sector supports the region in keeping
a tag on the trade imbalance in the region.
Though trade has been the driver of growth of
IBSA countries, the performance of trade in the
goods sector is somewhat different from that of
trade in the services sector.
Though overall trade of the region enjoyed
the trade surplus, the trade balance in the goods
sector was persistently having a trade deficit
since 2007. The reversal in the trade imbalance
of goods was covered up by the trade surplus
generated in the trade in services (TIS). Though
small in the size, TIS has been expanding more
rapidly than the goods sector during 2003-20
and almost reached a quarter of the overall
trade in goods of the region in 2020. Services
exports registered a 5.7-fold rise as compared
to a 3.5-fold rise in exports of goods whereas
imports in goods grew much faster than services
imports. Since imports in goods expanded faster
than exports in goods, the reverse was the case
with the services trade, where the trade deficit
in the good sector was overcompensated by

19
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
the trade surplus generated in the trade in the
services sector.
Trade imbalances in the IBSA region were
partially contributed by South Africa like
others. In a three-gap model framework, the
trade gap of the country was explained by
the combined force of resource gap (between
savings and investment) and revenue gap
(represented by the fiscal gap). In 2016 and
2017, the fiscal deficit was running high due
to weak growth performance and sluggish
household savings. Though global commodity
prices were buoyant, weak global demand
dampened export prospects of minerals in the
country. The external conditions for the mineral
sector aggravated the balance of trade situation
in South Africa (AfDB, 2019). Other countries
in the region had a similar situations.
During the recession, TIS received a strong
impetus to maintain sectoral trade surplus
persistently over the years. The region was
quite comfortable in managing its forex
position and total foreign exchange reserves
crossed the one trillion-dollar mark in 2020,
as represented in Figure 1. During the global
buoyancy and recession, the overall trade
situation dwindled to a large extent, but foreign
exchange reserves were strongly insulated from
various endogenous and exogenous shocks.
In the entire phase of recession, the volume
of forex was depleted temporarily in specific
years such as 2008, 2012 and 2018. All member
countries are comfortably placed in managing
their forex reserves, reflecting the sturdiness of
the region in meeting external sector challenges.
Decline of Growth amidst Macroeconomic
Stability
Though all the IBSA countries are categorised
as emerging nations, the literature suggests that
there has been diversity across the members
in their growth performance (Beath, 2006).
Brazil, among the three IBSA states, grew fast
in the last 1960s and 1970s. However, since
then, the country has recorded negligible GDP
growth with high macroeconomic instability.
As opposed to Brazil, South Africa experienced
less volatile economic growth, but the growth
had been trivial. Since the 1980s, except a brief
reform period in the 1990s, India recorded a
surge in the level of per capita growth ranging
from 2 to 7 per cent, just before the pandemic.
The IBSA region was hit hard during the
peak phase of the pandemic in 2020. Possibly
2020 was the worst year for the world economy
including the IBSA region in our current
memory. India envisaged becoming a $5
trillion by 2024-25
1, but the pandemic derailed
the ambitious growth target of the country.
Similarly, long term growth strategies drawn
by Brazil and South Africa were also adversely
affected by the Covid-19 situation. Although
all member countries in the region registered
negative GDP growth rates, Brazil performed
better than the other two member countries in
the sense that it was having a negative growth
rate but remained the least among all of them.
While Brazil posted a real GDP growth rate of
-4.1 per cent in 2020, India and South Africa
recorded the growth rate at -8 per cent and -7
per cent respectively, as shown in Table 1. In
the same year, real per capita income declined
much faster than GDP growth in IBSA countries,
contributing to the rising of the existing class of
“new poor” during the period of pandemic.
The macroeconomic scenario of the region
demonstrated that growth performances
of the IBSA countries were a major failure
at the individual country-level because
of unprecedented developments in quick
succession but overall macroeconomic
fundamentals remained in order. Despite the
pandemic, the fundamental macroeconomic
parameters of these countries remained
unchanged. Indicators such as consumer price
index, forex reserves, months of holding of
forex requirements, current account deficit,
the balance of trade situation, debt repayment
position, etc. remained under the permissible
limit, showing the stability of macro-economic

20
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
conditions of the region. These developments in
member countries prompted both the IMF and
the World Bank to forecast a robust recovery of
the regional economies in 2021.
During the turbulent period where the
external sector was adversely affected by the
health emergency, the forex reserves situation
was comfortable for all the regional partners.
During the crisis phase where these economies
were crippled with domestic production
shortages, ranging from medicines, medical
devices, food products, intermediates for
industrial activities, etc., requirements of forex
were at the peak for these economies like
many others across the globe. As the region
was holding a large forex reserve of over one
trillion dollars, South Africa, India, and Brazil
each maintained reserves for 7.2, 13, and 16
months, respectively. These countries could
manage their own economies and helped
other needy countries in both cash and kind.
Though countries faced internal shortages
and high debt ratio but could not face any
formidable challenge in their external sector
front, particularly imports of essential products.
The pandemic situation created a large
reservoir of ‘new poor’ in each of these countries
following the shrinkage of per capita income
and the risk of urban job security. In the relative
distribution of the labour force compared to
the total population, Brazil stood better than
India during the period of the pandemic. Even
though all of the IBSA countries are large in
their respective continents, India has the largest
regional population, followed by Brazil and
South Africa.
Because of the pandemic situation, loss of
employment coupled with declining household
and corporate income has resulted in declining
in the savings ratio. Gross savings ratio and
Table 1: Macroeconomic Status of IBSA countries, 2020
Variables Brazil India South Africa
GDP
GDP (constant 2010 US$) (Bn) 2268.5 2706.6 400.2
GDP (current US$) (Bn) 1444.7 2623 301.9
GDP per capita (constant 2010 US$) (Thou) 10.7 2 6.7
Population
Labor force, total (Mn) 99.8 471.7 21.7
Population, total (Mn) 212.6 1380 59.3
Remittances
Personal remittances, paid (current US$) (Bn) 1.6 7 0.9
Personal remittances, received (current US$) (Bn) 3.6 83.1 0.8
Finance
GFCF (% of GDP) 16.4 26.7 12.4
Gross capital formation (% of GDP) 15.4 28.4 12.4
Gross domestic savings (% of GDP) 16.8 28.3 17.6
Gross savings (% of GDP) 15 30.2 14.8
Inflation, CPI (annual %) 3.2 6.6 3.2
Trade
Exports of goods and services (% of GDP) 16.9 18.1 30.5
Imports of goods and services (% of GDP) 15.5 18.4 25.5
Merchandise trade (% of GDP) 26 24.7 56.3
Trade in services (% of GDP) 5.3 12.2 5.8
Trade (% of GDP) 32.4 36.5 56
Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank, 2021

21
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
gross domestic savings ratio to GDP remained
low for both Brazil and South Africa, compared
to India. However, the gross capital formation
ratio converged to the gross domestic savings
ratio for all members of the caucus, resulting
in limiting the domestic resource gap to
expand in these economies. The inflow of
personal remittances as a percentage of GDP
was buoyant for India but not much for other
members. Similarly, FDI inflows were not much
for the region. Inward FDI ratio to GDP was
negative for Brazil and South Africa whereas,
it was just 0.4 per cent for India in 2020. Poor
domestic resources in the region and weak
foreign inflows brought down the growth
performances of the regional economies.
Macroeconomic management of the regional
economies was sound where CPI-led inflation
and GDP deflator were put under control.
In the second episode of recession, IBSA
countries were entangled with inflation of
varying degrees in different periods. Brazil
continued to have subdued inflation in 2020 but
picked up rapidly in the 1
st quarter of 2021 to
reach 7.5 per cent. OECD (2021) has forecasted
inflation to surge in the remaining quarters
of 2021. India’s wholesale and retail inflation
rates were over 6 per cent in 2020. But it came
down substantially to 5.6 per cent in July 2021
and further to 5.3 per cent in August 2021 (GoI,
2021b). It may be noted that Consumer Price
Index (CPI) was 6.7 per cent in August 2020 but
rebound sharply in August 2021.
South Africa was having an inflationary rate
of 5.3 per cent in 2016 due to high food prices.
This caused the real effective exchange rate to
appreciate, leading to a loss of competitiveness
of the external sector. New tax policy brought in
an upward revision of value-added tax (VAT)
which provided the impetus to push inflation
further (AfDB, 2019). However, inflation was
under control in South Africa and was well
within the permissible limit of the Reserve Bank
of South Africa (OECD, 2021). The inflationary
situation in IBSA is gradually improving in
some member countries.
Regional economies of IBSA are mostly
service -led and more than 60 per cent of GDP
was steaming from the services sector in the case
of Brazil and South Africa whereas nearly half
of GDP was from the same sector in the case
of India. The agriculture sector plays a pivotal
role in India to prevent further deterioration
of industrial activities. The growth of the
industrial sector was better than agriculture, but
manufacturing activities were subdued in the
region. In the event of returning of buoyancy in
2021 as predicted by the IMF and World Bank,
this would make suitable corrections in the
sectoral imbalances of the regional economies.
The trade sector was adversely affected
by the pandemic where exports of the region
declined by -9.9 per cent and imports by -19.6
per cent in 2020.  In this year, India shared 58.5
per cent of the exports of the region and 59 per
cent of imports respectively. Trade openness
reduced to over one-third of GDP for Brazil and
India, but it continued to be robust for South
Africa which stood at 56 per cent of its GDP in
2020. In trade in services, India took the lead in
the contribution of the sector to its GDP which
was double the sectoral sizes of Brazil and South
Africa. In the merchandise trade, the share in the
GDP of South Africa remained robust compared
to its regional partners in 2020.
The resilience of IBSA economies from the
external market conditions can be seen from
their recovery status between the COVID-19
waves. OECD (2021) estimates a tremendous
increase in India’s merchandised trade at the
end of the 1
st quarter of 2021. The financial
markets in India are also attracting domestic
and foreign investors. The surge in exports
and imports is also accompanied by a record
increase in foreign exchange reserves, providing
a buffer for any future lockdowns. It has also
been estimated that increased demand for
consumer durables and manufacturing exports
in goods and services will positively effect
India’s economic growth in the future. Brazil, on
the other hand, experienced a strong recovery

22
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
at the end of 2020, where it is expected to rise
at 5.3 per cent in 2021 (IMF, 2021).
Though Brazil’s growth was subdued in the
first half of 2021, it is expected to rebound in
the second half of the year which would be led
by household consumption with an effective
vaccine rollout (OECD, 2021). Brazilian exports
are estimated to benefit from the global recovery
in agriculture and mineral sectors. The South
African economy, similarly, is expected to
recover in the latter half of 2021 with an increase
in domestic demand, commodity exports and
private investment. The country is expected
to grow at 4 per cent in 2021 (IMF, 2021). The
COVID-19 vaccination coverage is increasing
which would help in achieving the forecasted
growth rates in the IBSA countries.
Convergence of Trade Liberalisation
in the Region
While the global economy was reeling under the
‘Asian Financial Crisis’ since the latter half of the
1990s, IBSA countries were placed in different
levels of tariff regimes. South Africa was the
most liberalised economy among the regional
members and India and Brazil continued to be
the protected regional economies (UNCTAD,
2004; Milder and Husar, 2008). Each IBSA
member had a high number of tariff lines and
a huge divergence in-bound and applied tariff
rates (Mutambara, 2012). It is important to note
that Brazilian tariff structure – high tariffs, tariff
escalation on finished, tariff peaks and export
subsidies, has reflected protectionist behaviour
of the country on the South African exporters
(Soko, 2006; Marconini, 2005).
In addition to the high tariffs, non-tariff
barriers in the region have hampered the intra-
regional trade in IBSA (Mutambara, 2012).
However, regional economies had major strides
in liberalising their tariffs along with NTBs to
a large extent. In the tariff segment, several
tariff lines have been made to become zero.
The number of products under peak tariffs
declined significantly over years. Since the
late 1990s, tariff regimes started converging
among IBSA member countries. Although
near convergence of tariff rates was observed
Figure 2: Trends in Regional Tariff Liberalisation
(Average Import Weighted Tariffs, %)
Source: Authors estimation based on World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS), World Bank, 2020

23
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
during the onslaught of the global recession,
substantial macroeconomic policy reforms
started in these countries in different periods.
While India initiated the policy of liberalisation
in the mid-1980s, Brazil and South Africa started
the process of liberalisation in the early 1990s
(Arnal and Forster, 2010).
Import weighted average tariff (IWT) was
estimated for IBSA member countries for
the period 1999-2019 as shown in Figure 2.
By the time IBSA was formed in 2003, these
economies were on their liberalisation path. In
2021 the regional caucus is about to complete
two decades of its existence and during these
years, the region moved towards a convergence
of tariffs. The average import weighted tariff
was 17.9 per cent in 1999 and it turned out to
be 6.95 per cent in 2018 after two decades of its
formation, without any trade agreement and
any time-bound forced liberalisation of tariffs
among the regional members.
In 2003 on the average regional IWT was
around 14 per cent where both Brazil and South
Africa’s tariff rates were in the single-digit and
the same for India was in double-digit figures
in 2003. During the period of global buoyancy,
Brazil and India were on the path of rapid tariff
reduction whereas the average IWT of South
Africa was over 5.5 per cent. With the onset
of the global recession, commitments towards
tariff liberalisation were changed where India
continued its liberalisation path, both Brazil
and South Africa resented liberalisation. With
the prolongation of recession beyond the first
phase of recession (2008-13), regional economies
remain reactive to the global surge of tariff rates.
Region’s average IWT declined from 8.6 per
cent in 2014 to 6.95 per cent in 2018, indicating
smooth liberalisation. The policy of raising
the level of tariff by the regional economies
was the response to the global reaction to the
continuation of the recession. In the latter
half of the 2010s, regional economies chose
to go for further liberalisation amidst the
continuation of recession. However, by 2018
all regional economies returned to further tariff
liberalisation, and the average IWT reduced
to 6.95 per cent in the same year. Reversal of
tariff liberalisation surfaced again following the
rise of tariff by India in 2019. Despite frequent
changes in tariff structure by individual
member countries, the average IWT was almost
within the range of 6 to 10 per cent among IBSA
members since 2008. Post-pandemic era may
witness a further decline in the average IWT
of the region.
Pattern of Sectoral Tariff
After years of tariff liberalisation and
continuation of recession close to one and half
decades, several global economies resorted to
the policy of reversal of trade liberalisation.
Country specific policies such as ‘be American
buy American’ were reflections of the reversal
of liberal trade policies during the recession. As
a protective measure, IBSA member countries
adopted marginally protected policies during
the second phase of the recession, but several of
them followed the path of liberalisation again
in the recent years.
In 2019, IBSA countries were visibly more
liberalised than they were in 1999 and before.
Though IBSA countries are different from each
other in their access to resources, the level of
sectoral competitiveness differs significantly
among them and hence their sectoral protection,
resulting in varied negotiation strategies
at the WTO (Flemes, 2009). Brazil, being a
member of the Cairns group, defends a more
liberalised agriculture sector with protective
manufacturing and services sector. Despite
strong variation in their sectoral interest, there
have been a certain degree of commonality
existing between them. All three countries
were the initial signatories of the WTO,
industrializing through import-substitution
policy with promoting neo-liberal reforms
(Sotero, 2009). Therefore, one can observe a
similar level of sectoral tariff structure existing

24
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
between them. Sector-wise IWT are presented
in Table 2.
Among the IBSA member countries, the
agricultural sector is highly protected in
India but not in Brazil and South Africa.
Both Brazil and South Africa are members
of the Cairns Group, strongly in favour of
agricultural liberalisation globally. India has
a different stance on agricultural liberalisation
because of its large population engaged in
agriculture. Thus, the opening of the floodgates
of agricultural trade may jeopardise the
livelihood security of millions in the sector.
In 2019, India’s agricultural sector was highly
protected, particularly fats & oil and processed
food sectors. In this regard, the tariff structures
of Brazil and South Africa were similar to a
large extent. Since IBSA countries are mineral-
rich countries, average tariff in these countries
is low.
In the manufacturing sector, all the three
countries are comparable with average tariff
rates applied at 13 per cent, 14 per cent and
16 per cent in Brazil, India, and South Africa,
respectively (WTO, 2008). However, the
tariff variation rises with a higher degree of
disaggregation of products. One sector which
was commonly protected, before the recession,
in all three countries is automobile sector with
tariffs as high as 35 per cent in Brazil, 40 per cent
in South Africa and around 100 per cent in India
(Milder and Husar, 2008). Though IWT in the
automobile sector is moderate because of high
concentration of peak tariffs but is still a highly
Table 2: Sectoral Tariff Liberalisation in IBSA, 2019
S.No. Description Average Import Weighted Tariff (%)
1 Live Animals and Animal Products 12.3
2 Vegetable Products 24.5
3 Animal or Vegetable Fats & Oils 74.0
4 Prepared Foodstuff, Beverages, etc. 24.9
5 Mineral Products 1.4
6 Products of Chemicals 5.9
7 Plastics & Articles thereof 10.0
8 Raw Hides & Skins, Leather, etc. 16.0
9 Wood & Articles of Wood 7.4
10 Pulp of wood or of other Fibers 8.6
11 Textile & Textile Articles 22.6
12 Footwear, Headgear and Umbrella 27.0
13 Articles of Stone, Plaster, Cement 10.3
14 Natural or cultured pearls, Jewellery 11.3
15 Base Metals & Articles of Base Metal 8.9
16 Machinery & Mechanical Appliances 7.3
17 Vehicles, Aircraft and Vessels 19.9
18 Optical, Photograph & Cinematography 7.1
19 Arms and Ammunition 13.5
20 Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles 17.0
21 Works of Art Collectors' Pieces 7.2
Source: Authors estimation based on World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS), World Bank, 2020

25
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
protected sector in all the three economies of
IBSA.
From the total of 16 HS sections in the
manufacturing sections, a significant average
sectoral tariff was experienced in India (in seven
sectors), followed by Brazil (in four sectors)
and South Africa (in 10 sectors) in 2019. In
the manufacturing sector, the convergence of
tariff rates can be seen in six sectors including
chemicals, plastics, wood products, cement,
base metals, and miscellaneous manufactured
articles. In terms of the level of protection,
some countries are low tariffed than others,
indicating their sectoral competitiveness in the
world and the region. For example, India was
relatively less protected in sections like leather,
T&C, Footwear, and mechanical appliances,
whereas South Africa maintained low tariffs in
sections like wood pulp, jewellery, machinery,
precision instruments and handicraft products.
Similarly, Brazil maintained less protection than
India in certain HS sections such as gems and
jewellery and handicraft products apart from
agriculture. In the IBSA region, single-digit
average IWT rate was observed in some sections
of the manufacturing sector. Apart from the
agricultural sector, some of the HS sections
were highly protected such as T&C, Footwear
and Automobiles.
In a comparison of bilateral tariff preferences,
it has been observed that India levied a lesser
tariff on South African exports as compared to
Brazil, and similarly, South Africa applies lower
tariffs to Brazil (compared to India) providing
better market access to the selected partner
within the regional members (Mutambara, 2010).
Despite such variations in trade preferences,
countries are trying to reduce trade barriers
among them with trade agreements. India
and Brazil had signed an agreement to reduce
tariff barriers in certain sectors like chemicals,
automobiles, and agribusiness in 2004, followed
by a discussion on forging free trade agreement
which would provide India to enter the U.S.
market (WTO, 2005).
Brazil has liberalised the agriculture sector
and aimed at achieving a greater market access
in the sector, whereas, the same sector in India
is protected to support its large population and
subsistence farming (Grant, 2006). However,
the differences among the countries and
their participation in dynamic sectors, such
as energy, manufacturing and services with
technological development can support them
in harnessing the existing complementarities
(Puri, 2008). The divergences in tariff structure
of IBSA countries would allow these economies
to have more intra-regional trade, in both
existing and new products, because of mutual
trade complementarity.
Trade Dynamics of IBSA
Empirical experience is reflective of the fact that
IBSA is a group of trading nations with varying
capacities in diverse sectors of trade. Since
1990, the region was showing very little sign of
integration with the world economy and some
member countries have just started the process
of trade integration with the world economy
on account of pressing domestic compulsions.
At the time of the ‘Asian Financial Crisis’ in
1996, the region’s trade did not even touch the
threshold limit of $200 billion, but the region
reached %1.5 trillion in 2011. However, the
region continued to generate a trade surplus
until 1994.
With the return of buoyancy to the global
economy during 2003-08 and depicting the
economic maturity of India and South Africa
from their economic transition, the region’s
trade grew stupendously with export expanding
at the rate of 28.6 per cent and imports by 38.9
per cent with the world during 2003-08, as
presented in Figure 3. As the global economy
entered the second phase of recession in 2008,
the imprints of the global slowdown were
gradually felt in IBSA countries.
During the first phase of the economic
recession, the growth rate of the region’s
export with the world declined to 8.2 per cent

26
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
and imports to 8.6 per cent. During this phase
of recession (i.e., 2010-13), trade of the region
grew persistently with the world. Instead of
termination of the recession cycle, the second
phase of recession commenced since 2013,
affecting the global trade without conferring
much relief to IBSA countries. With the onset
of the second episode of recession which
continued till recently, both, the growth of the
regional exports and imports, slowed down
further. However, the remaining period of the
global recession was highly volatile for the
region but continued to maintain an overall
rising trend for the remaining period.
During 2003-20, the country experiences
were diverse for IBSA member states. In the
phase of global buoyancy (2003-07), countries
experienced flamboyant growth in exports and
imports which were unparalleled in the annals
of the economic history of the region. Rapid
growth in the external sector gave rise to a
trade surplus for Brazil, but a trade deficit for
both India and South Africa. The IBSA region
had been a trade deficit region with the world
since 2005. With the deepening of the trade
balance situation, the region’s exports cover of
imports was becoming unsustainable. Possibly,
augmented IRT could be an answer to such an
unsustainable trend.
Regional Pattern of Trade
As discussed earlier, IBSA exports maintained
high growth performance at the rate of 35 per
cent during 2003-08, despite the onset of the
recession in 2008, causing trade disruption in the
subsequent years. In the early phase of the global
buoyancy, the IBSA region was dominated by
the primary sector, particularly the minerals
sector was the front runner of the primary
sector. The legacy of mining as a dominant
sector continued over the decades, despite
the unprecedented upheaval of precession in
the world economy. The region witnessed its
peak exports in 2013 but the second phase of
the recession demonised the growth prospects
of the export sector. In the primary sector,
the region’s exports were weak in fats & oils,
and it was not corrected over the years. In the
manufacturing sector, specific segments such
as chemicals, textiles, gems and jewellery, base
Figure 3: Resurgence of IBSA Regional Trade with the World
(in $ Billion)
Source: Authors estimation based on Direction of Trade Statistics, IMF, 2021

27
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Figure 4: Sectoral Composition of IBSA Trade with the World, 2020
(in $ Billion)
Source: Authors estimation based on ComTrade Database, WITS, 2021
metal, machinery, and automobile continued
to be dominant ones in 2003 and the structure
of the industrial composition continued to
be unaltered all through the years until 2020.
But the importance of these sectors faded
marginally on account of growth dynamism in
other minor manufacturing sectors. Such fast-
growing resilient minor sectors were articles of
wood, plaster & cement, precision instruments,
other miscellaneous manufacturing products,
among other sectors.
The export sector of the region reveals that
the composition of lead export sectors is not
changed much but certain minor sub-sectors
have shown their resilience during the period of
dip-recession. The import pattern of the region
is somewhat different from that of its exports
to the world during the last two decades.
There were two major trends seen with the
import sector which were different from that
of exports. Firstly, the decline of the absolute
volume of imports with the world started much
before that of exports in the first phase of the
recession and imports started declining from
2013 but accidentally shot up with deepening
of the recession in 2018 and subsided sharply
in 2019 and 2020. There were imprints of a
certain degree of Intra-Industry Trade (IIT)
existing in certain industries where the region
has relative competitiveness. This has been the
reason for a substantial amount of trade taking
place in both export and import segments. It
may be interpreted as the region being a group
of middle-income and large countries, where
people in the region need a wider choice of
products for consumption and production
despite having competitiveness in these sectors.
The region shows its large imports in
the primary and manufacturing sectors, as
shown in Figure 4. Region’s imports from the
world dominate in sectors like machinery and
mechanical appliances, minerals and chemicals
including pharmaceuticals. In the entire period
of 2003-20, imports in the agricultural sector
remained consistent in all sub-sectors except for
the animal product segment. Import demand in
sectors like leather products, articles of wood,
footwear, and handicraft products continued

28
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
to be shallow during the study period. It is
interesting to note that there is a greater degree
of predictability about the import and export
of the region over a period. In middle-income
countries, product quality remains an important
issue in accessing markets of each other in the
region.
Trade performance of IBSA with the world
was robust in 2019 and declined substantially
in 2020 owing to the widespread pandemic in
the global economy. In 2019, the region’s trade
with the world stood at $ 1.4 trillion where
exports and imports of the region were $637.7
billion and $734.7 billion, respectively, thus,
registering a trade deficit of $97.0 billion. The
region has shown a considerable level of Intra
Industry Trade (IIT) with the rest of the world in
a sizable number of sectors. The IIT is a situation
where a country/region is simultaneously
importing and exporting in the same sector,
thus allowing producers and consumers to
have a wider choice to exert their preferences
for enhancing their welfare effects. In sectors
like minerals, chemicals, plastics, jewellery, base
metals, machinery and automobile, the region
is significantly engaged in exports and imports
simultaneously with the world. These are the
sectors that constituted the bulk of the region’s
trade with the world.
Trade among IBSA member countries is
highly balanced and is dominated by intra-
industry trade. These sectors also constitute
the bulk of the region’s trade, both exports
and imports in 2019. In the primary sector,
the mineral sector was the largest sector
among all other sectors in the region. Major
sectors in the manufacturing segment were
chemicals including pharmaceuticals, base
metals, machinery, and automobiles for trade.
The region imported a large quantum of gems
and jewellery from the region in 2019. The
degree of IIT was significant among all member
countries in the region and was significantly
high in base metals and minerals products. It
may be recalled that developed countries used
to blame emerging countries for their heavy
import dependence on Africa for minerals.
In fact, IBSA countries are in the process of
industrialisation and import large quantities
of minerals not only from other parts of the
world, but also from the region. There have
been strong trade complementarities between
member countries and the ground conditions
are favourable for taking the present level of
trade to greater heights in the future in the form
of a comprehensive regional agreement.
It may be noted that the top export sectors
of the region to the world are the same as the
top sectors of the region. Some countries in the
region can emerge as regional hubs for certain
sectors in exports and imports separately.
Mining, as already mentioned, is the primary
sector, but there are also five other sub-sectors
in manufacturing that show evidence of IIT in
the region, with significant trade already taking
place in these fields. Brazil has a large IIT with
the region in sectors like plastics, base metals,
and machinery. Besides, it is a major importer of
automobiles from the region. India was a major
importer and exporter of certain sectors in 2019.
As a leading importer from the region, it had a
clear preference of producers from chemicals,
plastics, and automobiles and as an exporter, a
strong presence can be seen in the sectors like
minerals, gems & jewellery, and base metals.
Similarly, the dominant sectors of South
Africa in the region for exports and imports
were different in 2019. South Africa remained
important in certain import sectors such as
minerals and gems & jewellery whereas its
dominance as a regional exporter in sectors
like chemicals, plastics, automobiles, and
automobiles. In case, the present level of
specialisation continues among IBSA countries,
several sectors may emerge as hubs in member
countries and trade flows would increase with
economies of scale. Recently, discussions have
started in India to diversify its imports from
other countries (Mohanty and Gaur, 2021) and
IBSA could be an ideal choice for India in this

29
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
regard. The experience of IBSA countries is
the testimony of demonstrating the existence
of a higher degree of trade complementarities
among them amidst a low level of trade.
Intra-Regional Trade in IBSA: Low but
Steady Rise
The persistence of the regional complementarities
among IBSA countries was not realised until
the late 1990s. After years of faltered state of
cooperation in trade between IBSA countries,
the trinity of the South worked unitedly in the
Seattle WTO Ministerial Conference in 1999
and formed a pressure group of developing
countries and tested the strength of their unity
in the trade negotiation. In fact, members of
IBSA are natural allies of their own rights
and have decided to cooperate in diversified
economic sectors. However, many studies have
pointed out that before 2003, i.e., the formation
of IBSA, the trade between the countries was
small and faced many barriers (De, 2005; Soulé-
Kohndou, 2013). For instance, India exported
merely 1 per cent of its global exports to South
Africa. Because of the vastness of countries,
distance, language and cultural factors, the
regional caucus took some time to tap the
economic synergies of the region.
It has also been observed that the member
countries have an uneven share in the intra-
IBSA trade in 1991, where Brazil captured most
of the share (78 per cent), followed by South
Africa (17 per cent) and India (5 per cent) (De,
2005). However, over time the structure of the
share of IBSA countries has been relatively
balanced in their IRT. Though Brazil had 42
per cent of the intra-regional trade in 2002,
India showed a substantive increase in the
share to 35 per cent, while South African share
increased relatively at a slower pace (De, 2005).
Woolfrey (2013) also estimated intra-regional
trade in IBSA between 1993 and 2002 and
highlighted that total intra-IBSA imports and
exports increased at a higher rate than IBSA’s
Figure 5: Growing and Resilient Intra-regional Trade in IBSA
Source: Authors estimation based on Direction of Trade Statistics, IMF, 2021

30
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
total trade imports and exports with the world.
Puri (2008) estimated that in the initial years of
IBSA formation, (2003-05), intra-regional trade
was doubled. RIS (2006) estimates intra-IBSA
trade amounted to be around $5 billion in 2002.
In its pre-formation years, the intra-regional
trade (IRT) ratio was estimated at 1.6 per cent
but reached 2.5 per cent in 2005, as shown in
Figure 5. But the formation of the IBSA forum
experienced a significant rise in the value of
intra-IBSA trade (Woolfrey, 2013). Intra-IBSA
trade increased from USD 2.5 billion in 2003
to USD 21 billion in 2012, meeting the regional
targets of reaching USD 10 billion by 2004 and
USD 15 billion by 2010 (Soulé-Kohndou, 2013).
In face of the onset of global recession, IRT was
unperturbed during 2008-12 and was growing
persistently without any discontinuity.
Similar positive developments in IRT can
also be seen during the last couple of years.
Despite the continuation of recession for the 14
th
consecutive year, IRT of the region consistently
grew for the 3rd consecutive year in a row during
2018-20. During the second phase of the global
recession, the IRT of the region reached twice
the level of 3.4 per cent in 2012 and 2014, but
could not move beyond this psychological limit
again until 2020. During the period of dip-
recession, the rising of IRT for 3 consecutive
years has been a major achievement for the
IBSA region.
However, several RTAs across major
continents failed consistently for 3
rd successive
years as recently as 2020, namely SADC, TFTA,
SACU and EAC in Africa, ASEAN and APTA
in Asia, Andean, Pacific Alliance, ALBA, OAS,
UNASUR, OECS, CELAC and LAIA in Latin
America and Caribbean region, PARTA in
Oceania and several Trans-continental RTAs
like IORA and CPTPP. The IBSA has immense
potential to grow despite the continuation of
the recession, but to realise such a possibility
there are a set of predictable and structural
trade measures to be undertaken by the
member countries. In case such an opportunity
materialises, IBSA may not look back for its past
non-performance.
Dependence on Extra-Regional Trade to
Decline
One of the many reasons for low intra-IBSA
trade is region’s trade through engagement with
certain traditional partners. IBSA trade with its
traditional partners like the United States and
the European Union grew faster than intra-IBSA
trade during 2000-2006, especially exports of
India and Brazil. It has also been observed that
the economic cooperation within IBSA countries
has been impeded due to their competition in
availing market access in OECD countries, as
they export similar goods to their traditional
partners (Flemes, 2009). Additionally, there
are studies highlighting Brazil’s reservation
of shifting trade from its traditional partners
(Vieira and Alden, 2011).
Low IRT among IBSA countries has led to
strong extra-regional trade of the region across
the globe. For the region, BRICS, China-Japan-
Korea (CJK) became strong trade destinations
because China became the largest exporter to
these economies. It has been observed that
China is coming up as a dynamic trade partner
of IBSA (Chakraborty and Sengupta, 2006)
and the inclusion of China in the grouping
may enhance their bargaining power at the
multilateral forums like the WTO (Chakraborty,
Banerjee & Sengupta, 2011). IBSA trade with
China has increased more than intra-IBSA trade
(Woolfrey, 2013). However, Soulé-Kohndou
(2013) points out the diversification of trade
partners of Brazil and South Africa from
traditional partners to China, whereas trade
diversification in India was noticed with other
countries. The diversification of trade of IBSA
countries, away from traditional partners, has
also been seen as increasing inter-regional
South-South trade in Latin American, African,
and Asian countries (Puri, 2008) which picked
up from 2004 (Mutambara, 2010).
Moreover, member countries are present

31
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
physically in three different continents and
each of them is a regional economic power in
their own rights, and therefore, IBSA’s extra-
regional trade is not only significant in selected
RTAs of their all continents but also with several
trans-continental RTAs. Among the prominent
ones, extra-regional trade remained significant
with RCEP, CJK, IORA, EU, NAFTA and
AfCFTA. BRICS is important because of the
presence of the entire grouping subsumed in it
and the Chinese factor in the regional caucus,
as represented in Figure 6. In mega-regional
trading arrangements, where stringent policies
prohibit other trading partners to operate
liberally, IBSA countries find it difficult to
have market access in these groupings such as
CPTPP, TTIP, NAFTA, etc. Because of import
dependence, the extra-regional trade of IBSA
with China alone grew from 15.2 per cent in
2000 to 21.6 per cent in 2020.
Additionally, while comparing IBSA and
BRICS, Arkhangelskaya (2011) and White
(2009) highlight that the core issues of the two
groupings are different, and one should not
combine IBSA with the latter. Apart from the
extra-regional trade, it has been found that the
bilateral trade between India and Brazil had
many hindrances like linguistic barriers and
geographical differences (Soulé-Kohndou,
2013). Contrary to this view, Mohanty et al.
(2019) pointed out that the distance factor may
not provide an appropriate excuse for low trade
between India and Brazil, as the entire Latin
America and the Caribbean region have been
deeply engaged with China which also faced
the same long-distance. The paper argues that
Figure 6: Asymmetric Trade of IBSA with Extra-Regional Groupings, 2020
(as % of Overall trade of IBSA)
Source: Authors estimation based on Direction of Trade Statistics, IMF, 2021

32
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
to reduce the logistic cost, India should consider
a) restructuring its trade basket by moving
towards light-weighted products, b) engaging
in direct shipping services and evading large
scale use of transhipment hubs while trading
to Brazil. With the rise in IRT among IBSA
countries, their dependence on extra-regional
grouping is likely to come down in the coming
years.
Growing Importance of Members in
Regional Trade
With the passage of time and growing
coordination between IBSA countries, the
relative importance of a member country with
other members within the grouping has been
improving. The IBSA countries in the global
buoyancy have experienced an increase in
trade among the members. Though with lesser
complementarities (Dupas, 2006), South Africa’s
trade with the rest of the two countries has
been increased during 2001-08, however, its
trade with India was much faster than Brazil
(Mutambara 2010). South African imports
from India are primarily in high-technology
manufacturing goods which are followed by
the mining sector. Alves (2007) highlights that
though bilateral trade linkages of India and
South Africa have been increasing, the countries
have not reached their full potential of economic
engagement. South Africa has experienced a
negative trade balance with both India and
Brazil due to its relatively small and liberalised
economy in the region (Stern and Stevens, 2000).
Simultaneously, Brazil’s bilateral exports to
South Africa are mainly in the manufacturing
sector, whereas South African exports to
Brazil mostly constitute primary goods, which
complement their bilateral trade relationship.
The IBSA economies have learnt to accord
priority to each other to improve their
relationship within the region along with
showing their convergent interest to the rest of
the world. This can be seen by looking at the
importance attached to the trade destination of a
member country in terms of its ranking in other
member countries both in exports and imports.
Among IBSA countries, the bilateral trade
ranking of a member country in other partner
countries has been improving significantly
during the last two decades. In terms of import
ranking of destination, Brazil’s ranking as an
importer from India improved from 26
th rank
in 2003 to 7th rank in 2020 and from 43 rd to 41st
for South Africa. Similarly, the rank of India
as an importer from Brazil improved from
29th to 27 th during the corresponding years.
During the same years, India augmented its
bilateral imports from South Africa to improve
its ranking from 21st rank in 2003 to 5th in 2020.
On the export front, Brazil improved its
market access in India as an exporter and
improved its ranking in India from 27th position
in 2003 to 16 th rank in 2020. India remained
a favourite export destination for Brazil and
improved its ranking as an exporter to Brazil
from 36
th position in 2003 to 23 rd rank in 2020
and similarly improved its exporter rank in
South Africa from 27 th in 2003 to 24 th in 2020.
Such a shift in trade linkages in recent years
has been the key factor for the rise in the IRT
ratio recently. It may be noted that the IRT ratio
in the regional grouping may be low, but the
absolute volume of trade has been very high as
compared to several RTAs in the contemporary
world economy.
Sectoral Focus in IBSA to Raise IRT
Literature suggests that bilateral imports of
India from Brazil have been more concentrated
in sectors like fat and oils and mineral products,
constituting 78 per cent of India’s total bilateral
imports (RIS, 2004). Brazil, on the other hand,
imported minerals and chemical products
from India. In the case of South Africa, Indian
imports are concentrated in sectors like natural
pearls and jewellery, accounting for 82 per
cent of India’s total imports from South Africa.
Gouvea et al (2021) encapsulates that most of
Brazil’s export to India are in sectors like oil

33
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
and gas, sugar, and soybean, whereas India
exports insecticides, chemicals, fuel and medical
products to Brazil. South Africa exports mining
products to Brazil and mining companies have
also invested in Brazil to increase the bilateral
trade (Soko, 2006).
Though the IRT ratio has been progressing
consistently even during the period of dip-
recession, it may be the appropriate time for the
adoption of a prudent approach to fasten the
speed of regional trade. The recent experiences
of the IBSA region indicated that a refurbished
approach towards regional trade may provide
impetus to promote the IRT of the region. There
is a need for identifying low hanging sectors
where current trade is very high among the
regional partners and a sectoral approach to
promote such sectors should be the main plank
of the current regional strategy to promote IRT.
Since the IRT ratio was 2.9 in 2020 and it was
peaked at 3.4 per cent, it would be appropriate
to provide thrust to high performing sectors to
boost sectoral IRT. In case IBSA can replicate
its own experience in IRT, it can comfortably
reach the level of 5.1 per cent or more IRT ratio
by 2025.
With this consideration, both agricultural
and manufacturing sectors may be considered
to a large extent. In the agricultural sector,
intra-regional trade is exceptionally sturdy in
HS sections like animal products and vegetable
fats & oils. Similar sectors in the manufacturing
sectors are products of chemicals, base metals,
and automobiles. These five sectors should
be on the priority list while bringing changes
in the regional trade strategy. Besides, there
are a few sectors that are also showing their
contribution to the possible robust growth of
IRT such as minerals, articles of wood and pulp
of wood. Renewed trade strategy, focused on
these specific sectors, would improve the IRT
ratio in the medium terms.
The region has been observing a surge in
IRT both in terms of volume of sectoral trade
and their growth over a period as shown in
Figure 7. The mineral sector remained the most
promising sector of the region among others.
The growth process of intra-regional trade has
been uneven across sectors and trade regimes.
In terms of contribution of the sector to total
intra-regional trade, the mineral sector became
exceptionally volatile compared to other major
sectors, which are emerging important from
the point of view of IRT of the region such as
agriculture, chemicals, gems and jewellery, base
metal, machinery, automobiles, and others.
In 2003, all sectors had more than double-
digit share in the total IRT, but the sectoral
contribution became highly lopsided over the
last one and half decades. As in 2020, only three
major sectors could maintain their share in IRT
in double-digit and those sectors were minerals,
chemicals, and agriculture.
Among major sectors in the manufacturing
sector, three of them could maintain their rising
share between 2003 and 2020 and they were
minerals, chemicals and gems and jewellery.
The growth profile of these major sectors was
different in three broad trade regimes, spanning
nearly over the last two decades during 2003-
20. The growth rate of IRT of major sectors
was buoyant in sectors like agriculture (24.0
per cent), minerals (46.6 per cent), chemicals
(24.8 per cent), gems and jewellery (47.1 per
cent), base metal (42.2 per cent) machinery
(31.3 per cent) and automobiles (31.5 per cent)
during 2003-07. With the onslaught of the
recession, growth rates of intra-IBSA trade in
several sectors declined significantly during
2008-12, but sectors like agriculture, minerals,
base metals and automobiles could maintain
double-digit growth during the period. The
world economy entered the second phase of
recession with Eurozone crisis, and it was a
major impediment for the intra-regional trade
in IBSA. During 2013-20, all major sectors except
chemicals posted a negative growth rate.
While discussing sectoral IRT patterns in
the IBSA region, the performances of two
sectors are worth mentioning. Despite the

34
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
onset of the recession, mineral sector trade
registered 30.4 per cent CAGR during 2008-12
but growth rate declined to -8.9 during 2013-20,
showing the fragility of the sector. However,
the chemical sector recorded a growth rate
of 2 per cent during 2008-12 and improved to
4.4 per cent during 2013-20. The region has
robust sectoral drivers for fostering IRT, but
innovative measures are to be taken by regional
economies to bring resilience in regional trade
performance.
Besides the present trade of countries, there
are many other sectors where IBSA countries
have the potential of increasing intra-IBSA
trade. It has been suggested that South Africa
can import affordable medicines from India and
simultaneously get market access in India for
sectors like coal, iron and steel, gold, and silver
(Soko, 2006). Brazil has a strong manufacturing
sector with a high share of the high-technology
products among the IBSA member nations
(Mutambara, 2010), such products can be traded
with regional members. In 2020, India and
Brazil signed an agreement to increase their
bilateral exports to USD 1 billion in the defence
hardware and software by 2025 (Gouvea et al,
2021).
Regional Trade in Strategic Sectors
Experiment of IBSA with GVC Trade
The global economy was battered by the
recession in 2008 and recreated a situation
deeper than the ‘Asian Financial Crisis’ in the
mid-1990s. Despite the recession, the region’s
trade with the world was buoyant in several
end-use sectors both in imports and exports.
During the first phase of the recession (2008-12),
exports and imports of certain sectors witnessed
50 per cent or more rise in sectors such as
primary, intermediate including GVC, and final
consumption goods. Though subdued progress
in the end-use trade sector was noticed, it
remained under control. During the same
period, semi-processed, parts and components
(P&C) and final consumption goods sectors
were performed to the expected level. Followed
by the gradual recovery of the regional trade,
there was a turnaround in 2013 along with
global GDP, thus, started a new phase of the
recession in that year. The beginning of the
Figure	7:	Sector	Specific	Intra-Regional	Exports	in	IBSA	(in	$	Billion)
Source: Authors estimation based on UN ComTrade, WITS, 2021

35
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
second phase of the recession following the
deepening of the financial crisis caused a new
spate of catastrophe for the region, in terms of
reduction in volume of trade. The year 2015 was
a watershed for the region where the region’s
trade with the world declined by 8.08 per cent
and IRT by 25 per cent over the preceding year.
It was interesting to note that a decline
in trade in the region was felt in all end-use
segments along with exports and imports in
2015. The impact of trade reduction in major
sectors was felt in the decline in trade deficit in
major sectors. Marginal recovery ensued since
2017, irrespective of sectors but the rising trend
of exports and imports was short-lived and
again the volume of trade followed a southward
movement in 2019 and 2020.
The impact of the first and second phases
of the recession had a lasting impact on the
sectoral composition of the end-use sector,
including parts & components. At the beginning
of the global recession in 2008, the regional
share of the intermediate sector with the world
was much higher than the final goods sector
and the share of exports was higher than that
of imports. Trade in the Global Value Chain
(GVC) constituted a very small proportion of
the region’s imports and exports. In the first
phase of the recession, GVC exports in Parts
& Components formed nearly 6.5 per cent and
imports 11.7 per cent of the total exports and
imports, respectively, of the region with the
world. Effectively trade in the semi-processed
sector dominated the intermediate trade
scenario of the region.
During the first phase of the recession, the
share of the intermediate trade segment in the
total trade continued to decline both in exports
and imports, as shown in Table 3. During the
first phase of recession, the export share of the
intermediate (35.7 per cent) was much greater
than that of imports (30.9 per cent) in 2008, but
exports and imports were almost approaching
32.4 per cent at the beginning of the second
phase of the recession in 2014. Trade in parts
& components is a critical sector for IBSA.
Sector’s exports and imports shares in region’s
technology-intensive trade were much smaller
than that of the sector’s share of the trade
deficit in the overall trade deficit of the region
in technology-intensive trade, which is rather
unsustainable for the region in the long run.
The IBSA region has several vibrant sectors
where the P&C segment is well developed.
Some of these sectors like automobiles, textiles
are somewhat protected but have the potential
to grow. Regional efforts may be warranted to
address the inherent problems associated with
the P&C sector by liberalising it, particularly
among regional economies.
Regional trends in Technology-Intensive
Trade
The long-term objective of the IBSA region
is to raise the volume of trade in medium
and high technology-intensive goods, as the
margin of trade in these segments has been
much higher than primary, agro-based, and
low technology-intensive goods. In 2008, low
technology-intensive trade of the region was
Table	3:	Growth	in	IBSA	Trade	with	the	World	in	Broad	Economic	Classification
(in %)
Period Primary Intermediate Parts &
Components Capital Consumption
Import Export Import Export Import Export Import Export Import Export
2008-12 10.6 11.6 10.6 6.7 8.5 6.0 3.0 4.0 15.7 10.2
2013-20 -9.5 -0.4 -1.4 -1.7 -0.6 -1.5 -1.9 -4.4 -4.4 -0.6
2008-20 -2.3 3.5 2.2 1.7 2.6 1.5 -0.1 -0.5 1.8 3.5
Source: Authors estimation based on ComTrade, WITS, 2021

36
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
marginally lower than that of medium intensive
trade, but high technology-intensive trade was
nearly 3.8 times higher than low technology-
intensive trade. Despite the dip-recession, the
overriding edge of medium technology and
high technology trade remained intact in 2019 as
it was in 2008. As in 2019, medium technology
was 2.3 times and high technology 3.4 times than
that of low technology trade so far as region’s
trade with the world is concerned. Traditionally,
the region had an added advantage in the trade
of low technology goods with a large trade
surplus, and continued to have a trade deficit
in the medium technology and high technology
trade sectors. However, relative dependence on
the medium technology sector for imports was
lower than that of the high technology sector.
In 2019, low technology trade was 10.6 per cent
of total trade with the world.
The regional economies performed better
in the first phase of the recession, where the
region’s exports and imports grew at the CAGR
of 10.2 per cent and 12.3 per cent, respectively,
during 2008-12, as shown in Table 4. Export
growth of medium technology was moderate
at 3.7 per cent and high technology was at 6.7
per cent during the same period. In the second
phase of the recession, the region registered
a major setback both in export and import
performances. There were stagnancy in exports
and a downturn in imports of the region in
low-tech products. Imports of the medium-
tech goods posted a negative growth rate and
exports growth managed within the slander
positive margin.
Only the high technology trade sector
demonstrated a respectable growth rate of
2.3 per cent and 2.7 per cent of imports and
exports, respectively, during 2012-19. So far
as the region’s exports were concerned, high
technology trade performance was better
than the other two technology-intensive
segments with the world during the entire
period of recession. Despite variations in
different technology-intensive segments,
overall comparative performances of the low,
medium, and high technology-intensive sectors
were gratifying where export growth outpaced
import growth by a significant margin. While
technology-intensive export growth was
registered at 3.3 per cent, the corresponding
import growth was 2.5 for the period 2008-19.
This is an encouraging trend for the region
and the regional economies and should learn
to trade more with the technology-intensive
segments in the future.
Intra-regional trade in technology-intensive
goods had a diverse experience among member
countries during the period of recession. In
the initial phase of the recession, IRT in the
sector grew rapidly and the volume of the IRT
doubled during 2008-11. There was a short
period of stagnancy in the IRT during 2011-13
when annual trade in this segment hovered
around $19 billion per annum. But the persistent
decline in IRT was noticed during 2013-16 and
volatility grappled the region in subsequent
years with a further dip in the deepening of
the global recession. In 2019, the total IRT in
technology-intensive trade was $30 billion. The
Table 4: Growth of IBSA trade in technology-intensive goods with the World (in %)
Period Low Technology Medium Technology High Technology
Import Export Import Export Import Export
2008-12 12.3 10.2 6.4 3.7 4.9 6.7
2012-19 -0.2 0.0 -0.5 2.1 2.3 2.7
2008-19 4.1 3.6 2.0 2.7 3.2 4.1
Source: Authors estimation based on ComTrade, WITS, 2021

37
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
bilateral and time-series information stipulates
that there are no ‘stylised facts’ emanating from
the experiences of these countries.
Trade in the technology-intensive sector by
the member countries has been mostly demand-
driven, and the pattern of exports and imports
at the bilateral level differs from time to time.
For example, Brazil was the largest importer of
technology-intensive goods followed by South
Africa and India in 2019. On the export front,
India was the largest technology-intensive
goods exporter followed by South Africa
and Brazil. This pattern of distribution was
not consistent in the past years, as Brazil was
the most important importer in the low and
medium technology-intensive segment and
India in the high technology sector. In the
IBSA region, there is trade complementarity to
access each other’s markets for trade in different
technology-intensive sectors.
Managing Export Potential in the
Region
Though the formation of IBSA aimed at
increasing the bargaining power of the
developing countries, the IBSA countries also
focused on increasing sectoral cooperation,
through tapping regional synergies in the
mutual interests of the members, with sharing
of best practices and experiences (Flemes,
2009). Some of the sectors which have been
identified for regional cooperation are trade
and investment, energy, transportation
and infrastructure, science and technology,
agriculture, tourism, health, and many others.
It has been pointed out that in sectors like
health, transport, energy, and development
fund, at least one of the IBSA countries has a
comparative advantage, which has the potential
of stimulating the economic growth of the
region with cooperation (Mokoena, 2007).
The region has focused on four areas–trade,
health, transportation, and energy security, for
which these countries have also signed many
Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) and
Agreements. Owning to COVID-19, sectoral
cooperation in pharmaceuticals and healthcare
services may be of paramount importance
bilaterally or regionally (Chaturvedi, 2011).
The IBSA region is characterised by trade
competitiveness, trade complementarity
and export potential within the region. As
large, export-oriented, open economies,
these countries are intensely engaged with
international trade in many commodities. These
countries are not only exporters of tradable
goods but also importers of these goods.
Because of distance and language factors,
these economies have ventured into trade in a
limited number of commodities in each of these
economies, but they have competitiveness in a
large number of commodities based on their
global price competitiveness. The literature
suggests the existence of export potential
of IBSA countries in the region. RIS (2008)
estimated the unconstrained export potential
of South Africa to be around $59.8 billion in
the IBSA region, followed by Brazil ($46.2
billion) and India ($17.3 billion). A recent study
estimated India’s export potential in Brazil to
be around $4.65 billion (Mohanty et al, 2019).
There was also discussion about the formation
of a comprehensive regional grouping among
IBSA countries and their regional partners,
i.e., SACU-India-MERCOSUR (SIM). Mohanty
and De (2007) estimated the potential of SIM at
$28.88 billion in 2003.
In the absence of a comprehensive trade
agreement between the IBSA countries, the
‘trade creation effects’ in the Vinerian sense
is estimated. In short, IBSA countries have
large competitiveness in each other’s markets
whether actual trade is taking place or not
as shown in Table 5. It is empirically verified
that each country has about 4500 competitive
products, on an average, in the markets of
member countries. It is important to note that
each member country has a large number of
competitive products to export and import as
well as showing a trend of tariff convergence

38
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
among themselves. These empirical evidences
endorse a strong case for a Free Trade Agreement
(FTA) in the IBSA region, which has also been
argued by several studies (Sandrey and Jensen,
2007; Taylor, 2009; Stephen, 2012).
Taking a modest estimation of trade creation
(Mohanty, 2012; Mohanty et al. 2019), the region
has a large export potential of $25929.5 million
in a year and may grow with the passage of
time. The largest trade potential is estimated
for Brazil with $14071 million, whereas India
and South Africa can have export potential to
the extent of $4920 million and $6939 million,
respectively. Bilaterally speaking, India has the
least export potential of $3786 million in Brazil
and $1134 million in South Africa, whereas
Brazil has an export potential of $12585 million
in India and $1486 million in South Africa.
South Africa is moderately placed where it has
an export potential of $2247 million in India and
$4692 million in Brazil.
With the existing trade structure of IBSA
countries, the trade potential of member
countries in their trade partners is in specific
sectors. These sectors are somewhat similar so
far as potential sectors are concerned. To begin
with, the region can focus on 4 main sectors and
2 minor sectors. The major sectors are minerals,
chemicals, base metals, and machinery whereas
minor sectors are plastics and automobiles.
The automobile sector continues to be the most
protected sector in the region, having similar
strategies adopted by the regional economies.
Unilateral liberalisation of certain products,
favourable for the regional economies, may
help member countries in accessing each other’s
Table 5: Export Potential of IBSA members in the region (in $Million)
Sectors India Brazil South Africa
Live Animals and Animal Products 71.1 20.2 80.6
Vegetable Products 100.4 113.5 119.5
Animal or Vegetable Fats & Oils 27.1 298.1 47.9
Prepared Foodstuff, Beverages, etc. 132.9 166.6 162.3
Mineral Products 381.8 5501.4 163.6
Products of Chemicals 1284.3 1232.5 1854.5
Plastics & Articles thereof 367.1 380.6 571.5
Raw Hides & Skins, Leather, etc. 10.7 36.5 21.8
Wood & Articles of Wood 5.0 73.6 69.8
Pulp of wood or of other Fibers 140.1 233.0 167.9
Textile & Textile Articles 112.6 188.2 231.0
Footwear, Headgear and Umbrella 50.4 25.8 42.7
Articles of Stone, Plaster, Cement 70.2 59.2 88.7
Natural or cultured pearls, Jewellery 76.0 1455.5 175.7
Base Metals & Articles of Base Metal 564.9 881.5 1407.4
Machinery & Mechanical Appliances 835.3 2643.6 1367.3
Vehicles, Aircraft and Vessels 481.9 369.5 181.2
Optical, Photograph & Cinematography 167.0 301.9 123.8
Arms and Ammunition 2.1 0.8 0.9
Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles 38.1 86.5 59.8
Works of Art Collectors' Pieces 0.4 2.0 1.6
Grand Total 4919.6 14070.6 6939.3
Source: Authors estimation based on ComTrade, WITS, 2021

39
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
market successfully. The region also shows
trade potential in the part and component (P&C)
sector which is spread into several sectors.
Conclusion
For the IBSA to rise as an axis of SSC, it
should emerge as an economically strong
regional caucus. IBSA has to deepen its
internal coordination to speed up the trade
profile among themselves. Strong unity
comes from strong economic cooperation in
the region. All efforts are to be made to raise
IRT progressively before they could divert
their attention to other countries. The existing
institutional mechanisms including PTAs,
Bilateral Investment Agreements, etc., may be
strengthened to improve the efficiency of the
regional caucus in the light of the IBSA Forum
declaration in 2006. Regional cooperation in
trade and investment should be intensified along
with supporting other developing countries.
Some of the specific policy recommendations
are as follows:
• Existing policies of IBSA relating to domestic
economic management and development
assistance finance, may be guided by the
approaches of Structuralists to learn and
achieve high economic growth, with or
without macroeconomic stability.
• Regional trade focus may look into
employment generation in the trade sector
by engaging in certain vibrant sectors
where the region has strong intra-industry
trade and competitiveness among member
countries.
• Bilateral tariff and NTBs management
through existing arrangements may be made
comprehensive with mutual consultation to
benefit regional members. SACU-Mercosur
PTA was in force since 2016. India-SACU
should be concluded at the earliest.
Additionally, the proposed expansion of
the coverage of India-Mercosur PTA should
be implemented to reap the benefits of the
contracting parties.
• There are certain high potential sectors,
which are covered under high protection in
the region such as automobiles. Other sectors
such as wood pulp, plastics, base metals, etc.
may be considered to liberalise trilaterally
or bilaterally among the member nations.
Gradual sectoral liberalisation among
members through existing Agreements may
help the region in ‘catching-up’ fast with the
world economy.
• There is a strong global expectation from
IBSA to play an important role in the
rebounding of the global economy. It may
start with expanding IRT among IBSA
member countries through fresh unilateral/
regional trade concessions and can expand
it to other countries.
• Important trade sectors of the region
with the world are similar to the sectors
important for IRT of the region. Increasing
IRT may reduce trade imbalances of
the regional partners with the world by
diverting more trade from the rest of the
world to the ambit of IRT.
• Apart from traditional major sectors, new
major sectors are also emerging. These
sectors may be promoted to bolster inflows
of trade within the region.
• For improving trade ties with the regional
economies, emphasis may be conferred to
product development, which may expand
the choices of consumers within the region
as strong sectoral Intra-Industry Trade
(IIT) is existing in the region. Scientific
institutions in member countries may
be associated with the manufacturers to
develop new products for production,
consumption and trade.
• Product quality is important for the domestic
and global markets for trade. Cooperation
for product quality development may be
considered through joint projects.
IBSA countries have a magnificent history as
major trading nations, and this legacy is being
carried forward in the global community. Very

40
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
less efforts were made in the past to consolidate
economic ties between member countries to take
benefits from the synergies from the region.
ASEAN-5 and European Community-5 adopted
the principle to empower them and also keeping
the size of the regional caucus small to take
advantage of the synergies of the region. The
long missing strategy of the regional grouping
has to be re-adopted to strengthen its inner core.
The economic parameters are strong enough
to suggest that the formation of bilateral or
triangular comprehensive trade agreement(s)
is possible. Political ‘big push’ is required to
revive the past glory of the region.
Endnote
1  Budget speech by the Finance Minister, 2021-22
Budget.
References
AfDB. (2019). African Economic Outlook 2019. African
Development Bank Group. URL: https://www.
afdb.org/fileadmin/uploads/afdb/Documents/
Publications/2019AEO/AEO_2019-EN.pdf
Alves, P. (2007). India and South Africa: shifting
priorities. South African Journal of International
Affairs, 14(2), 87-109.
Arkhangelskaya, A. (2010). India, Brazil and South
Africa Dialogue Forum: A Bridge Between Three
Continents. Nordiska Afrikainstitutet Policy
Notes, 8.
Arkhangelskaya, A. (2011). IBSA-BRICS: Rivals or
Allies. In International workshop on South-South
Cooperation and the new forms of Southern
Multilateralism. June.
Arnal, E., & Förster, M. (2010). Growth, employment
and inequality in Brazil, China, India and
South Africa: an Overview. OECD. Retrieved
from: https://www.oecd.org/employment/
emp/45282661.pdf
Beath, A. (2006). The Investment Climate in Brazil,
India, and South Africa: A Contribution to the
IBSA Debate. World Bank, Washington, DC.
World Bank.
Bratzel, A. (2011). Brazil and IBSA: A Blueprint for
Future South-South Cooperation?. Council of
Hemispheric Affairs. 2011. August, 2.
Brewster, D. (2010). An Indian sphere of influence in
the Indian Ocean?. Security Challenges, 6(3), 1-20.
Chakraborty, D., & Sengupta, D. (2006). IBSAC
(India, Brazil, South Africa, China): A potential
developing country coalition in WTO negotiations.
Centre de Sciences Humaines Occasional Paper,
(18).
Chakraborty, D., Banerjee, P., & Sengupta, D. (2011).
Strengthening Developing Country Coalitions
in WTO Negotiations: Is IBSAC (India, Brazil,
South Africa, China) the Right Forum?. Available
at SSRN 1747697.
Chaturvedi. S. (2011). South-South Cooperation in
Health and Pharmaceuticals: Emerging Trends in
India-Brazil Collaborations. Discussion Paper 172.
Research and Information System for Developing
Countries, New Delhi.
Chevallier, R., Von Drachenfels, C., & Stamm, A. (2008).
India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA)–a new geography
of trade and technology cooperation?. Zeitschrift
für Wirtschaftsgeographie, 52(1), 35-49.
De, P. (2005). Trade in IBSA Economic Cooperation:
The Role of Transportation Linkages. Research
and Information System for Developing Countries
(RIS), (DP #104), New Delhi.
Dupas, G. (2006). South Africa, Brazil and India:
divergence, convergence and alliance
perspectives. India, Brazil and South Africa–
Perspectives and alliances, Sao Paulo, 311-339.
Flemes, D. (2009). India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) in
the new global order: interests, strategies and
values of the emerging coalition. International
Studies, 46(4), 401-421.
GoI. (2021a). Press Note on Estimates of Gross Domestic
Product for the First Quarter (April-June)
2021-2022. Ministry of Statistics & Programme
Implementation (MoS&PI), Government of India.
GoI. (2021b). Press Release on Consumer Price Index
Numbers On Base 2012=100 For Rural, Urban
And Combined For The Month Of August
2021. Ministry of Statistics & Programme
Implementation (MoS&PI), Government of India.
Gouvea, R., Kapelianis, D., & Padovani, F. (2021).
The Indian surge into South Africa and Brazil:
The economic opportunity triad. Thunderbird
International Business Review, 63(3), 329-338.
Grant, C. (2006). Developing a Comprehensive IBSA
strategy: On WTO Agriculture Negotiations.
South African Institute of International Affairs
(SAIIA) Trade Policy Report No. 11.
IBSA Forum. (2006). Joint Declaration, India-Brazil-
South Africa Dialogue Forum (IBSA). 1st IBSA
Summit Meeting. Available at: http://www.ibsa-
trilateral.org/images/1st_summit_declaration.

41
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
pdf#:~:text=Joint%20Declaration%20The%20
Prime%20Minister%20of%20India%2C%20
H.E.,Meeting%20of%20the%20India-Brazil-
South%20Africa%20Dialogue%20Forum%20
%28IBSA%29.
IMF. (2021). Fault Lines Widen in the Global Recovery.
World Economic Outlook. July.
Kornegay, F. (2011). South Africa, the Indian Ocean
and the IBSA-BRICS equation: Reflections on
geopolitical and strategic dimension. ORF
Occasional Paper, New Delhi.
Lechini, G. (2007). Middle powers: IBSA and the new
South-South cooperation. NACLA Report on the
Americas, 40(5), 28-32.
Lee, T. C., & Lee, P. T. (2012). South-South trade
liberalisation and shipping geography: a
case study on India, Brazil, and South Africa.
International Journal of Shipping and Transport
Logistics 4, 4(4), 323-338.
Marconini, M. (2005). “Brazil Report”, IBSA National
Consultation Meeting Report. Presented at
the National Consultative meeting held in
Johannesburg, South Africa on 27th October.
Mildner, S., & Husar, J. (2008). India, Brazil and South
Africa in the Doha Round: Trade Policy Interests
and Decision-Making Structures. Foreign
trade, 63(1), 69-98.
Mohanty, S.K. (2012). India-China Bilateral Trade
Relationship. Study prepared for Reserve Bank
of India. Research and Information System, New
Delhi.
Mohanty, S.K., and De, P. (2007). SACU-India-
MERCOSUR Economic Cooperation: A
Framework for Trade and Investment
Cooperation. Research and Information System
for Developing Countries, New Delhi.
Mohanty, S.K., and Gaur, P. (2021). Towards Limiting
Market Access: India-China Report. Research and
Information System for Developing Countries,
New Delhi.
Mohanty, S.K., Gaur, P., Fernandez, S. and Sikri,
U. (2019). India’s Economic Engagement with
LAC: Strategy for Trade and Investment.
Ministry of Commerce, Government of India and
Research and Information System for Developing
Countries (RIS), New Delhi.
Mokoena, R. (2007). South-South Co-operation: The
case for IBSA. South African Journal of International
Affairs, 14(2), 125-145.
Mutambara, T. E. (2010). Examining South-South
Trade Flows and Market Access Conditions: A
Case Study of the India, Brazil, and South Africa
Development Initiative. TIPS Data Notes and
Reports.
Mutambara, T. E. (2012). Mutual Accessibility amongst
Markets in India, Brazil and South Africa (IBSA).
Studies in Economics and Econometrics, 36(3), 65-99.
OECD. (2018). OECD Economic Surveys: Brazil 2018.
February.
OECD. (2019a). Economic Outlook for Southeast
Asia, China and India 2019 TOWARDS SMART
URBAN TRANSPORTATION.
OECD. (2019b). OECD Economic Surveys: India 2019.
December.
OECD. (2021). OCED Economic Outlook. Volume
2021, Issue 1.
Puri, L. (2008). IBSA: An emerging trinity in the new
geography of international trade. Trade Analysis
Branch DITC, UNCTAD Working Paper, (35).
RIS. (2004). India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) Economic
Cooperation: Towards an Action Programme.
Interim study report prepared for the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Government of India,
New Delhi.
RIS. (2006). India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) Economic
Cooperation: Towards a Comprehensive
Economic Partnership. Research and Information
System for Developing Countries (RIS), (PB #26),
New Delhi.
RIS. (2008). Trinity of the South: Potential of India-
Brazil- South Africa (IBSA) Partnership. Academic
Foundation, New Delhi.
RIS. (2016). Trinity for Development, Democracy and
Sustainability. Research and Information System
for Developing Countries, New Delhi.
Sandrey, R., & Jensen, H. G. (2007). Examining the
India, Brazil and South African (IBSA) Triangular
Trading Relationship. TRALAC Working Paper
No 1.
Schrooten, M. (2011). Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa: strong economic growth-major
challenges. DIW Economic Bulletin, 1(4), 18-22.
Shaw, T. M., Cooper, A. F., & Antkiewicz, A. (2007).
Global and/or regional development at the start
of the 21st century? China, India and (South)
Africa. Third World Quarterly, 28(7), 1255-1270.
Soko, M. (2006). South-South economic co-operation:
the India-Brazil-South Africa case. Trade
Policy Report No.12. South African Institute of
International Affairs.
Sotero, P. (2009). Emerging Powers: India, Brazil and
South Africa (IBSA) and the future of south-south
cooperation. Woodrow Wilson International
Centre for Scholars, Special Report August.
Soulé-Kohndou, F. (2013). The India-Brazil-South
Africa forum-a decade on: mismatched partners
or the rise of the south? (No. 2013/88). GEG
Working Paper.

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
42
Stephen, M. D. (2012). Rising regional powers and
international institutions: The foreign policy
orientations of India, Brazil and South Africa.
Global society, 26(3), 289-309.
Stern, M., & Stevens, C. (2000). FTAS with India and
Brazil: an initial analysis. Trade and Industrial
Policy Secretariat (TIPS) Working Paper, 10.
Taylor, I. (2009). ‘The South Will Rise Again’? New
Alliances and Global Governance: The India–
Brazil–South Africa Dialogue Forum. Politikon,
36(1), 45-58.
UNCTAD. (2004). Strengthening participation of
developing countries in dynamic and new sectors
of world trade: Trends, issues and policies.
Background note by the UNCTAD
Vieira, M. A., & Alden, C. (2011). India, Brazil, and
South Africa (IBSA): South-South Cooperation
and the Paradox of Regional Leadership, Global
Governance: A Review of Multilateralism and
International Organizations, 17(4), 507-528.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1163/19426720-01704007
White, L. (2006). IBSA: A State of the Art. In Conferencia
Poderes emergentes y seguridad regional: el caso
IBSA, Universidad San Andrés, Buenos Aires.
White, L. (2009). IBSA Six Years On: Co-operation in a
New Global Order. SAIIA Policy Briefing 8.
Woolfrey, S. (2013). The IBSA Dialogue Forum ten
years on: Examining IBSA cooperation on trade.
TRALAC Trade Brief No. S13TB05.
WTO. (2005). World Trade Report 2005. Geneva: World
Trade Organisation.
WTO. (2008). World Tariff Profiles 2007. Geneva: World
Trade Organisation.

43
Introduction
A
ll the three IBSA countries have been
actively cooperating on the issues
related to global trade governance,
climate change, health and biodiversity
conservation and have been arguing for
reforming the global governance architecture to
reflect the concerns of the developing countries.
This chapter intends to provide an overview of
the IBSA cooperation at the WTO on the issues
related to global trade governance such as Doha
Round negotiations, Dispute Settlement Body
reform, reinforcing special and differential
treatment, services, fisheries subsidies, IPRs
and TRIPS, e-commerce and digital economy;
and on the issues of climate change, healthcare,
protection of Traditional Knowledge and issues
related to CBD including the issue of DSI, ABS,
Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework,
review of Article 27.3 (b) and so at various
multilateral platforms such as WTO, TRIPS
Council, WIPO, UNFCCC, WHO and UN CBD.
This chapter argues for a greater cooperation
among the IBSA countries to address the
contemporary and emerging challenges, the
need for providing a collective stance with the
Southern narrative and to propel the reforms
of the multilateral agencies to make them more
inclusive, participatory and responsive.
IBSA at the WTO: Intersections and
Coalitions
India and Brazil led the developing countries
in raising developmental concerns prior to
the launch of the Uruguay Round, while
Brazil and South Africa had a major role in the
launch of the Doha Round. Subsequently, all
the three economies significantly influenced
various aspects of Doha Round negotiations
through platforms including IBSA and Africa
Forum as well as through ‘coalition diplomacy’
(VanGrasstek, 2013). Soon after the launch of
the IBSA Dialogue Forum in 2003, the three
countries came together at the WTO Cancun
IBSA Cooperation for
Global Governance
of Trade, Climate
Change, Health and
Biodiversity
4

44
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Ministerial Conference to successfully defend
the common interests of developing countries in
agriculture negotiations and sought substantial
cuts in the trade-distorting farm subsidies
of developed countries. As part of WTO
negotiations, IBSA countries have also worked
together on demanding the elimination of non-
tariff barriers of developed countries (Flemes,
2009). Brazil and India, as representatives of
the developing world, were part of the G4
(comprising Brazil, India, the US and the EU)
and later Five Interested Parties (G4+Australia)
and G6 (G4+Australia+Japan) to help WTO
Members arrive at a consensus on various issues
(Ismail, 2006).
The IBSA countries were instrumental in
forming the G-20 (later referred to as G21
or G20-plus) developing country-coalition
at the WTO on agriculture issues as well as
the NAMA-11 group, involved in talks on
industrial goods trade. They also helped to form
the BRICS group that is a coalition outside of
the WTO but among other things it is able to
influence the WTO negotiations. Significantly,
what kept the IBSA countries together was
their flexible approach that helped them take
necessary steps to protect their own national
interests even while simultaneously staying
united in the G-20 and NAMA-11 coalitions.
For instance, Brazil, along with the European
Union, wanted developing nations to phase out
agriculture export subsidies by 2025 and amend
export credit norms (RIS, 2015). Brazil and South
Africa, with offensive interests in agriculture,
are members of the Cairns Group Farm Leaders
comprising leading farm products exporting
nations pitching for liberalisation of agricultural
international trading system and pushing for
greater market access in developed countries.
Meanwhile, India, with defensive interests
in agriculture, is part of the G-33 developing
country coalition also known as ‘Friends
of Special Products’ in agriculture seeking
flexibility for limited market opening in farm
products. India, Brazil and South Africa are
part of the ‘W52 sponsors’, a North-South
coalition (as it has European Union and
Switzerland from the developed world as well
as several developing countries as members)
with interests in geographical indications in
the Doha Round talks. The IBSA countries
had also sought multilateral trade governance
reforms and raised their voice against various
protectionist policies as well as trade-distorting
measures (VanGrasstek, 2013). The IBSA
countries had converged as part of the “Friends
of Development” group (comprising more than
a hundred developing nations) in 2011 in a bid
to break the Doha Round deadlock and said
that they were willing to consider any fresh
approaches to successfully conclude the Round
provided such approaches are based on a
‘multilateral consensus firmly anchored within
the Doha Mandate’ as against plurilateral
approaches that are “against the principles
of multilateralism and inclusiveness” (WTO,
2011).
In the context of overall reforms of the
rule-based multilateral trading system, India
and South Africa, along with eight other
WTO members had in July 2019 reminded
the larger membership that since 1996 (just
a year after the launch of the WTO in 1995),
developing Members have been seeking
reforms by removing the ‘asymmetries’ as
well as by ensuring “greater policy space
for themselves to pursue development and
to use the same policy tools as developed
countries to industrialize.” Matters including
“the strengthening of Special and Differential
Treatment Provisions, Implementation Issues,
addressing the existing asymmetries in the
WTO Agreements, particularly in Agriculture
with a view to facilitating the realization of the
SDGs on food security and alleviation of rural
poverty” were then incorporated into the Doha
Development Agenda in 2001.
According to India, South Africa and the
other eight developing countries, the WTO,
however, is drifting away from the Marrakesh

45
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Agreement principles (including to improve
the developing world’s trading prospects) as
well as from the Doha Development Agenda
(DDA) negotiations mandate seeking centrality
to the developing world’s interests in the Work
Programme. Referring to recent attempts
of some Members to bring in new items
into the WTO negotiating agenda (through
plurilateral initiatives) without addressing
the outstanding issues of the DDA, India,
South Africa and other developing country
members warned that WTO reforms should
not lead to developing countries “accepting
either inherited inequities or new proposals
that would worsen imbalances”. According
to them, “Reforms must be premised on the
principles of inclusivity and development and
respond to the underlying causes of the current
backlash against trade and the difficulties that
developing Members continue to face vis-à-
vis their industrialization challenges” (WTO,
2019a).
The three countries had in 2019 brought out
a joint statement urging the comity of nations to
prioritise reform of the international economic
governance architecture, including the WTO.
Recognising the WTO’s key role in “promoting
the interests of developing countries on issues
such as agriculture”, the three countries
emphasised the need for ensuring the centrality
of development in the WTO reform process.
The related efforts should “take into account
the whole Membership, including developing
Members, in particular, LDCs” so as to make
them inclusive and non-discriminatory, they
emphasised. Referring to the diversity of
interests and concerns of WTO Members,
IBSA countries stressed the importance of
trust building as well as the need to “address
the inequalities and asymmetries in existing
agreements” (Government of India, 2019).
Dispute Settlement Mechanism
In 2019, India and South Africa, along with
like-minded WTO Members had pitched for
discussions on “strengthening the WTO to
promote development and inclusivity.” They
wanted the WTO norms to be tightened to
prevent “unilateral action on trade issues that
are inconsistent with WTO rules” so that the
rules-based multilateral trading system is not
weakened (WTO, 2019a). On the WTO Dispute
Settlement Mechanism-related reform issues,
India and South Africa, along with Bolivia,
Cuba, Ecuador, Malawi, Oman, Tunisia,
Uganda and Zimbabwe in 2019 also wanted ‘the
resolution of the Appellate Body (AB) impasse
to precede other reforms’ (WTO, 2019a). In
addition, India, Brazil, South Africa, along with
several other Members had, in 2019, submitted
a communication to the WTO demanding the
establishment of a Selection Committee and
the launch of a selection process “so that the
Dispute Settlement Body can take a decision to
appoint six new Appellate Body members as
soon as possible” (WTO, 2019b). India is keen
to ensure the ‘restoration of a two-tier Dispute
Settlement Mechanism’ with the DSB and the
AB (Government of India, 2021a). As seen in
Table 1 below, Brazil and India are major users
of the WTO Dispute Settlement Mechanism
(also see RIS, 2015), while South Africa is a third
party in several cases.
Table 1: WTO Disputes: IBSA countries
Country As complainant - cases As respondent - cases As third party- cases
Brazil 33 17 159
India 24 32 171
South Africa - 5 21
Source: WTO website on dispute settlement

46
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Reinforcing Special and Differential
Treatment
Developing nations including the G90 coalition
comprising African countries including South
Africa and the Least Developed Countries
have demanded that the 12 th Ministerial
Conference later this year should have an
outcome on preserving Special and Differential
Treatment (S&DT). They also want S&DT to
be strengthened by making it effective and
simpler in a way that can help such countries
overcome various developmental challenges.
These challenges include ‘widening inequality
and asymmetric economic development’ that
has been aggravated following the COVID-19
pandemic outbreak. In this regard, the
developing countries have also sought adequate
policy space to protect their infant industries
as well as promotion of new industries,
preferential market access for their MSMEs
and transfer of technology (Kanth, 2021). India
has been at the forefront of proposals and
arguments for S&DT provisions since the GATT
regime and continued to play a proactive role in
the WTO discussions as seen in the agricultural
negotiations (RIS, 2015).
 The S&DT issue gained prominence in
recent years following a communication by
the US to the WTO alleging that some of the
better off developing nations are getting the
same S&DT exemptions like poor developing
countries and therefore sought an end to the
practice of WTO Members self-designating
themselves as developing countries and
claiming S&DT benefits (WTO, 2019c). This
was countered by India and South Africa
and other like-minded countries at the WTO
arguing for the ‘continued relevance of S&DT
in favour of developing members to promote
development and ensure inclusiveness’ (WTO,
2021a). These countries termed Special and
Differential Treatment (S&DT) as a “treaty-
embedded and non-negotiable right for all
developing Members”. They demanded,
“the preservation and strengthening of the
S&DT provisions in both current and future
WTO agreements (including the one under
negotiation on fisheries subsidies), with priority
to outstanding LDC issues” (WTO, 2019a).
Brazil, however, decided to give up S&DT in
WTO talks (Schneider-Petsinger, 2020; Mano,
2019).
Fisheries Subsidies
India and South Africa, along with the African
Group and Cuba demanded that the outcome of
the negotiations reflect “development priorities,
poverty reduction, and livelihood and food
security concerns.” Pointing out that effective
S&DT for developing and least developed
countries were at the core of SDG14.6 on
sustainable fishing, they stated this mandate
must be fulfilled especially on account of the
COVID-19-triggered crisis severely impacting
the Global South (WTO, 2020b). Mohanty
and Gaur (2021) pointed out that while India
“does not endorse S&DT for the illegal fishing
component of fisheries subsidies negotiations”,
it has made clear that S&DT is vital for small-
scale and artisanal fishers in developing
countries including LDCs in the context of
unreported and unregulated fisheries. India
had also proposed that developing nations
be permitted to continue providing fisheries
subsidies provided they meet the criteria
including that their per capita GNI is below
$5000 (based on constant 2010 US dollars);
their global share in the production of marine
captured fish is less than 2 percent annually;
they are not engaged in distant fishing; and the
contribution of agriculture is more than 10 per
cent of their annual national GDP (Mohanty
and Gaur, 2021).
Noting that the “per capita fisheries subsidy
given by most developing countries is minuscule
compared to advanced fishing nations”, India
wanted the countries providing huge subsidies
to “take greater responsibility to reduce their
subsidies and fishing capacities, in accordance
with the principles of ‘Polluter Pays’ and
‘Common but Differentiated Responsibilities’.

47
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Brazil’s communication emphasised that
the “highest standards of environmental
sustainability” must be incorporated in the
final multilateral fisheries subsidies agreement
(WTO, 2020c). India, South Africa and other
developing countries had raised concerns over
Brazil’s proposal, ‘not explicitly’ referring to
S&DT. They also opposed Brazil’s proposal
disregarding the ‘polluter pays’ principle as
it has placed countries with sophisticated
industrial fishing vessels on the same level
as nations with no or a very small number of
mechanized fishing fleets under “collective
responsibility” umbrella (Kanth, 2021).
Intellectual Property and TRIPS
An important area that needs deeper IBSA
cooperation is the intellectual property (IP).
IBSA countries have highlighted the developing
country perspective to the debate on IP-related
issues during the GATT regime. Further, India
and Brazil have opposed efforts by developed
countries to bring in TRIPS-plus norms in the
WTO discussions. However, there are now
efforts within and outside the WTO to weaken
the unity of developing countries on IP issues,
notably through a variety of  trade agreements.
Moreover, the field is getting complex due
to the varying IP interests – both offensive
and defensive - of IBSA countries in different
contexts (Yu, 2015).
India and South Africa have undertaken
a leadership role following the COVID-19
pandemic outbreak by submitting a proposal
on a temporary waiver of certain TRIPS
provisions to ensure greater access to vaccines,
diagnostics and therapeutics for the prevention,
containment and treatment of COVID-19
(WTO, 2020d; WTO, 2021b). In this regard, it is
important to look at the ways to ensure transfer
of technologies including those related to
mRNA vaccines and a greater access to the raw
materials and inputs needed for the production
and distribution of vaccines.  Many developing
countries are capable of producing vaccines,
diagnostics and therapeutics.
However, Brazil and India are among the
developing countries to have used the TRIPS
flexibility (reiterated by the Doha Declaration
on Public Health) of compulsory license albeit
in a limited manner. In South Africa, “the
initiation of the compulsory licence proceedings
induced the originator companies to provide”
voluntary licence in HIV/AIDS drugs. Brazil
and India and to some extent South Africa
nevertheless strengthened their intellectual
property regime and have seen an increase in
applications and grants of patents in sectors
including pharmaceuticals as well as in receipts
of royalty payments (RIS, 2015).
Cooperation between India, Brazil and South
Africa was also seen in the US-Brazil drug patent
dispute at the WTO when the three countries
came together as a coalition (G3) in 2001 and
were instrumental in ensuring the acceptance
of Brazil’s position that taking the compulsory
license route for the import/production of
generic medicines to combat AIDS to meet its
public health needs was compatible with the
TRIPS Agreement and its obligations under
the TRIPS Agreement and GATT. The US had
decided to withdraw the case. In 2003 also
the G3 played a key role in the WTO decision
permitting generics imports by countries by
overriding patents to handle national public
health emergencies (RIS, 2019). In 2010, India
and Brazil came together to take on the EU in the
case of seizure of generic drugs while transiting
through the Netherlands towards third-country
destinations including Brazil. Such coordinated
efforts on intellectual property-related matters
at the WTO and other international forums
such as the WIPO have boosted South-South
cooperation in ensuring a greater access to
medicines and a related international regime
(Chaturvedi, 2011).
Brazil, along with some developed country
Members and developing countries (not
including India and South Africa), have sought
the removal of “existing restrictions on exports
of essential medical goods, including COVID-19

48
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics” and said
they will “make best endeavours to temporarily
remove or reduce tariffs on goods that are
considered essential to fighting COVID-19
pandemic” in addition to ensuring transparency
and review of trade measures (WTO, 2021c).
This was opposed by India. According to India,
‘stringent transparency obligations’ as well
as the elimination of export restrictions and
tariffs “will not guarantee access to vaccines,
therapeutics or diagnostics or access to food
for the most vulnerable” as such measures
may “lead to, a flight of these critical final
finished products to the highest bidder, making
them inaccessible to the resource-poor further
aggravating the current divide” (Government
of India, 2021).
Services
As regards services negotiations, all the three
IBSA countries are not members of the Trade in
Services Agreement (TISA) plurilateral outside
the WTO framework that sought to liberalize
trade in the sector and ensure greater market
access, and eventually be multilateralised
within the WTO framework (Schneider-
Petsinger, 2020; Government of Canada website
on TISA). However, Brazil is part of the talks
on the plurilateral within the WTO framework
on services domestic regulation that aims to
“develop disciplines to mitigate the unintended
trade restrictive effects of measures relating
to licensing requirements and procedures,
qualification requirements and procedures,
and technical standards.” The plurilateral’s
objective also is to look at ways to improve
participation in Global Value Chains as well
as to maximise the benefits therefrom through
greater transparency and predictability in
regulations (WTO, 2020e).
India and Brazil have made requests on
Mode 4 (movement of natural persons) as
well as Mode 1 (cross-border supply) and
Mode 2 (consumption abroad) of the General
Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) (RIS,
2015).  The common sectors where India, Brazil
and South Africa have made commitments
include business, communication, construction
and related engineering, financial, as well
as tourism and travel related services. South
Africa with 91 commitments had the maximum
number among the three countries, followed
by Brazil (43) and India (37). The business and
financial sectors were the ones where the three
countries made most of their commitments
(Mazenda, Masiya and Nhede, 2018) (Also see
Table 2).
India had proposed an Agreement on Trade
Facilitation for Services (TFS) as a counterpart
for the Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) in
merchandise trade. Pointing out that “border
and behind-the-border barriers” were hindering
services trade, India had stated that in order to
address these barriers and facilitate services
trade, “the broad objectives of the (goods) TFA,
Table 2: Sectors where IBSA countries have made commitments under GATS
Country Sectors
Brazil Business, communication, construction and related engineering, distribution, financial,
tourism and travel related, transport
India Business, communication, construction and related engineering, financial, health,
tourism and travel related
South Africa Business, communication, construction and related engineering, distribution,
environmental, financial, tourism and travel related and transportation.
Source: Mazenda, Masiya and Nhede, 2018.

49
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
which were simplification and transparency,
reduction of transaction costs, streamlining
of procedures, disciplining fees and charges,
expeditious processing of applications and
cooperation between competent authorities,
among others, were equally relevant.” South
Africa, on behalf of the Africa Group coalition,
agreed that “like Indian services suppliers,
suppliers originating from the countries of the
African Group also faced impediments when
trying to enter foreign markets.” However,
South Africa said it was not clear whether the
proposed TFS would bring “any long-term
gains for African countries, as net services
importers.” According to South Africa, its
“participation in the services discussions
was in large measure contingent on the level
of ambition and outcomes in agriculture, in
respect of domestic support, and in the context
of a balanced Doha Development Agenda
package.” Brazil supported some parts of
the TFS proposal including the provision on
‘electronic applications and acceptance of
copies’, but wanted clarity on several other
aspects including ‘publication and availability
of information’ (WTO, 2017).
New Issues – E-commerce & Investment
Facilitation
India and South Africa have challenged the
‘legal status of Joint Statement Initiatives (or
JSIs on e-commerce, domestic regulation,
investment facilitation, Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprises, etc.) and their negotiated
outcomes’ at the WTO (WTO, 2021d). These
two countries, along with some other WTO
members demanded the “continuation of the
practice of decision-making by consensus” to
ensure that the JSIs or plurilateral agreements
as well as attempts to later multilateralise the
JSI outcomes do not ‘change the fundamental
multilateral architecture of WTO’ (WTO, 2019a).
Brazil, however, has stayed away and is part of
the discussions on JSIs including in Investment
Facilitation for Development and e-commerce.
Nevertheless, IBSA countries need to initiate
dialogue in the group on issues including
e-commerce, investment facilitation, as well as
competition policy in the context of TRIPS and
government procurement for a better Southern
response on them.
There is a scope for cooperation on
investment facilitation though Brazil is among
the proponents on the JSI on Investment
Facilitation for Development (IFD), while India
and South Africa have opposed it. India has
been advocating the bilateral agreement route
rather than the multilateral/plurilateral one on
investment facilitation, and has made use of the
WTO Working Group on Trade and Investment
to express its views on the issue. Along with
South Africa, India has been taking the stance
that investment is not part of the Doha Round.
They also do not agree with the proponents of
the JSI on IFD that trade and investment are
inter-linked, and instead have argued for the
need to protect their policy space on this matter.
However, it is important to note that India and
Brazil have signed a Cooperation and Facilitation
Investment Agreement (CFIA) in January 2020
(Government of India, 2020), which can be a
starting point for deepening cooperation on
this issue to ensure a “fair and sustainable
relationship between foreign investors, their
home countries, and the governments of host
countries” as well as for greater ease of doing
business through strengthening the relevant
Single Electronic Window mechanisms aimed
at improving ‘transparency of and accessibility
to investment policies’ (Peres, 2021).
On e-commerce-related discussions at the
WTO, India and South Africa came together
to oppose efforts for plurilateral negotiations
and a permanent extension on a customs duty
moratorium on e-transmissions. Brazil, however,
is part of the Ottawa Group of countries seeking
to ‘prioritize and accelerate efforts to advance
these (e-commerce) discussions to reach a timely
and high standard outcome’ (WTO, 2020e). As
per India and South Africa, the moratorium
will adversely impact the industrialisation in

50
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
developing countries due to “the loss of the use
of tariffs as a critical trade policy instrument”
to support local industries and enable them to
“grow and gain competitiveness.” Also, due to
the digital divide, “participation of developing
countries in exports of digitizable goods has
been marginal,” and the gains flowing from
the digital economy have been unevenly
distributed. Moratorium will also lead to
“potential tariff revenue loss to developing
countries is estimated at USD 10 billion per
annum (using average bound tariffs)”, as
against tariff revenue loss of only USD 289
million for WTO high-income countries on
account of their low average bound duties (0.2
percent)”, and “moratorium will be equivalent
to developing countries giving the digitally
advanced countries duty-free access to our
markets” (WTO, 2020f).
IBSA Partnership on Climate Change
Issues
Given the magnitude of the enormous challenges
posed by the climate change, all the countries
globally have started taking note of it and are
showing serious concern in exploring ways to
mitigate the impact it could have on the societies.
Addressing the challenges of climate change is
also critical in terms of its impact on biodiversity
and food security. At COP21 in Paris, in
December 2015, Parties to the UNFCCC reached
a landmark agreement to combat climate change
and to accelerate and intensify the actions and
investments needed for a sustainable low
carbon future. The Paris Agreement is built
on the principles of the UNFCCC and for the
first time brought all nations into a common
cause to undertake ambitious efforts to combat
climate change.   Regarding the issues of climate
change, IBSA countries have been cooperating
ever since the inception of the grouping and
have been taking measures to combat climate
change and also voicing their concerns at the
multilateral forums. In light of the upcoming
COP26 in Glasgow (UK) later this year, the
IBSA countries need to keep pursuing their
demands for effective implementation of the
Paris Agreement especially in terms of calling
on the developed countries to fulfill their
commitments with right earnest.
All the three IBSA countries have declared
their rather ambitious climate targets and
commitments to the UNFCCC in their Nationally
Determined Contributions (NDCs).  India has
voluntarily committed to reducing greenhouse
gas emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35 per
cent below 2005 levels by 2030. It has also set a
target of increasing the share of non-fossil-based
energy resources to 40 per cent of installed
electric capacity by 2030 (subject to receiving
adequate support). Brazil has set a target of
37 per cent reduction in emissions below 2005
levels by 2025 and an indicative target of 43
per cent reduction by 2030. South Africa, on
the other hand, has set a target range between
398 to 440 Mt CO2 eq for 2030, which is an
ambitious improvement on their current NDC
target. The upper range of its proposed 2030
target range represents a 28 per cent reduction
in GHG emissions from the 2015 NDC targets
(398-614 Mt CO2 e).
Coverage of Climate Change Issues within
IBSA
The issue of climate change has been one of the
key topics within the IBSA cooperation and
deliberations. In the first meeting of the Foreign
Ministers of Brazil, South Africa and India in
2003, they highlighted their concern over the
results of atmospheric warming due to the
emission of greenhouse gases and encouraged
countries having emission reduction goals in the
Kyoto Protocol to work to bring them into force
and fully implement them. They recognized the
Rio Conference and its Agenda 21 along with
the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation for
Agenda 21, which endorsed the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) as the key instrument for addressing
climate change. In the Cape Town Ministerial

51
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Communiqué (2005), the three IBSA countries
expressed their pleasure at the entry into force
of the Kyoto Protocol and urged the developed
countries to meet their own commitments and
undertakings under the Protocol in terms of
Green House Gas (GHG) emission reduction
and also in terms of technology transfer,
capacity building and financial support to the
developing countries.
In the Brasilia Declaration, released after
the first IBSA Summit in 2006, the three IBSA
countries reaffirmed that the principles in the
Rio Declaration and the Johannesburg Plan of
Action, particularly the principle of “Common
but Differentiated Responsibilities and
Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC)”, should
continue to guide multilateral negotiations on
environmental issues. The three IBSA countries
urged the donor countries to meet their Official
Development Assistance (ODA) targets and
to mobilize new and additional financial
resources, as well as to foster the transfer of
environmentally-sound technologies in order
to fully implement the outcomes of the World
Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD),
held in Johannesburg in 2002.
Development of Carbon Market
In the subsequent New Delhi Ministerial
Communiqué (2007), the three IBSA countries
again underlined that climate change is a global
phenomenon that requires an international
response under the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
They urged that immediate and real effect
must be given to commitments to international
cooperation in fighting climate change,
especially in the areas of adaptation, technology
transfer, capacity building and the development
of the carbon market. They argued that the early
and significant commitments would give a long-
term and strong signal to the private sector,
including in its involvement in climate-related
investments, and spur the carbon market.
Clean Technologies
Within the framework of cooperation in the
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
between the IBSA countries in the field of
environment, it was stated that a couple of
priority areas would be to promote cooperation
aimed at mutual transfer of knowledge
and promotion and development of clean
technologies through joint research and projects;
and to promote the exchange of information
and knowledge, technical expertise, best
practices and cutting edge technology through
undertaking study visits, participation in short-
term training courses. Within this framework,
there is an ample scope to deepen the IBSA
cooperation in transitioning towards cleaner,
more flexible energy efficient systems that
combine inclusive and sustainable growth
while decreasing the Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(GHGs) as committed in the Paris Agreement.
Deeper IBSA cooperation in various areas such
as advancing low or zero emission energy
solutions such as renewable (solar, wind),
hydrogen, bioenergy and biofuels can be further
explored. The International Solar Alliance (ISA),
established during the COP21 of UNFCCC with
the pioneering effort led by India can play a
key role in promoting clean energy through
decentralised and off-grid solar power. This
mechanism should be leveraged by the IBSA
countries towards climate-friendly clean energy
transition.
Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)
and Biofuels
The IBSA countries acknowledged the
contribution that the Clean Development
Mechanism’s (CDMs) could play in promoting
sustainable development while leading the
transfer of clean technologies to developing
countries. They expressed their satisfaction at
the successful launching of the International
Biofuels Forum in 2007 in New York (proposal
which was steered by Brazil, India and few

52
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
other countries) and reaffirmed the importance
of the efforts being made in the context of the
initiative to promote the establishment of an
international market for biofuels.
On biofuels, the “IBSA Trilateral Task Team
on Biofuels” was established in 2006 itself to
facilitate technology transfer and promotion
of biofuels production and consumption with
a view to establish a world market for biofuels,
in particular, ethanol and bio-diesel and to
promote compatible frameworks for biofuels
production, use, distribution and marketing
in order   promote ethanol trading in major
commodity market places worldwide. The
Task team was also mandated to foster joint
programs of research on the production and
use of biofuels and to promote the exchange of
information among the IBSA countries on the
design of automobile engines for promoting the
use of bio-fuels.
Climate Change as a “Global Public Good”
In the New Delhi Declaration, released after
the third IBSA Summit in 2008, the three IBSA
countries underscored the importance of urgent
action on climate change and exhorted for an
accelerated pace for long-term cooperative
action in accordance with the provisions and
principles of the UNFCCC, especially the
principle of CBDR-RC. They argued that the
technology and transfer of advanced clean
technologies to developing countries had the
potential to be a critical transformation agent in
addressing climate change and called upon the
international community to actively promote
technology innovation and development and
its transfer and deployment in developing
countries. They also alluded to climate change
as “Global Public Good (GPG)” and argued that
the intellectual property rights (IPRs) regime
must also move in a direction that balances
rewards for innovators and the GPG.
In the subsequent Brasilia Ministerial
Communiqué (2009), the three IBSA countries
again underscored the need to fully implement
the commitments under UNFCCC in accordance
with its principles, especially that of CBDR-
RC.  In the Brasilia Declaration, released after
the fourth IBSA Summit in 2010, the three
IBSA countries again urged the developed
countries to take ambitious action to reduce
their greenhouse gas emissions, and to provide
adequate international financing and transfer of
technology to support the efforts of developing
countries to mitigate and adapt the impacts
of climate change. In the 2011 Tshwane
Declaration, released after the fifth IBSA
Summit, the three IBSA countries called
for an early operationalisation of all the
institutions agreed to at COP16/CMP6 in
Cancun such as the Adaptation Committee;
the Technology Executive Committee, the
Technology Centre and Network; the Standing
Committee on Finance and the Green Climate
Fund, which could provide significant means
of implementation for action to tackle climate
change.
Paris Agreement
In 2017 after the IBSA Trilateral Ministerial
Commission Meeting, the three IBSA countries
welcomed the entry into force, of the Paris
Agreement adopted under the UNFCCC and
urged all countries to work together for the fair
implementation of the Paris Agreement based
on the principles of the UNFCCC including
the principles of equity and common but
differentiated responsibilities and respective
capabilities. They called upon developed
countries to fulfill their commitment to provide
necessary (means of implementation) financing,
technology transfer and capacity building
support to developing countries.
They further called for maintaining focus on
the implementation of existing commitments
by developed countries in the pre-2020
period, including the ratification of the Doha
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. In 2018
too, the three IBSA countries emphasized
that effective implementation of developed
countries legal obligations under UNFCCC, its
Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement would

53
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
be essential for building trust among Parties
and to create conditions for the successful
implementation of the Paris Agreement.
IBSA Cooperation within BASIC
Apart from the IBSA-specific Summit
Declarations, Ministerial Communiqués and
Joint Statements, all the three countries have
been voicing their collective stance on climate
change through the platform of BASIC Group,
which was created in 2009 after the signing of an
agreement between Brazil, South Africa, India
and China. Broadly the group has a common
position on reducing greenhouse gas emissions
and it has been carrying-out the negotiations
within the UNFCCC. The group meets four
times a year, once in each of the BASIC countries
by rotation.
In the recent 30
th BASIC Ministerial Meeting
on Climate Change, which was hosted by
India on 8 th April 2021, the member countries
emphasized that they are fully committed
to implement their NDCs and underscored
that the UNFCCC remains the centre of
the collective, multilateral response to the
climate crisis. They called for the faithful,
balanced and comprehensive implementation
of the Convention and its Paris Agreement,
in accordance with its goals and principles, in
particular equity and CBDR-RC. The member
countries highlighted that the key outcomes of
the upcoming COP26 in Glasgow (UK) would
be to conclude the negotiations on Article 6,
launch the operationalisation of the Global Goal
on Adaptation (GGA) and achieve progress
on climate finance, which is one of the key
enablers for developing countries to implement
ambitious climate actions.
They expressed deep concern on the
insufficiency and inadequacy of the support
provided by the developed countries and urged
the developed countries to provide new and
additional, sustained, predictable, adequate
and timely finance, technology development
and transfer and capacity building support
to developing countries. They also called for
the developed countries to present a clear
roadmap at COP 26 on their continued existing
obligations to mobilize USD 100 billion per year
from 2021 to 2025.
IBSA, Health Sector Cooperation
and WHO Reforms
Given the unprecedented crisis caused due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the issue of safeguarding
effective global healthcare governance has been
flagged by many countries. The gaps within
the current architecture and implementation
strategies have come to the fore quite clearly.
Towards fighting this pandemic, the role of
international cooperation has also been found
to be very essential and productive. Being three
prominent developing countries representing
three continents, the IBSA countries need to
place a collective voice demanding for the
reforms in the global healthcare governance
system such as within the WHO, to ensure that
it functions in a more effective, responsive and
timely manner.
Healthcare Cooperation within IBSA
Health has been a key priority area within IBSA.
In the first meeting of the Foreign Ministers
of Brazil, South Africa and India in 2003, they
highlighted the promotion of health in their
respective countries and recommended that the
exchange of experiences in combating disease
in the three countries would be of immense use
to all of them, thus paving way for the IBSA
cooperation in the health sector.
In the Brasilia Declaration released after the
first IBSA Summit in 2006, the IBSA countries
welcomed the creation of the IBSA trilateral
Working Group on Health and formulation
of the IBSA Implementation Plan on Health
focusing on public health laboratories, health
surveillance, traditional medicine and sanitary
control regulation. They also reiterated the need
to reduce major trade barriers to facilitate access
to new affordable quality vaccines, medicines,

54
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
diagnostics and technology aimed at preventing
and controlling infectious diseases, and
underscored that the flexibilities contained in
the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects
of Intellectual Property Rights, recognized by
the Doha Ministerial Declaration on TRIPS and
Public Health, should be fully used to protect
public health.
In the 2007 Tshwane Declaration, released
after the second IBSA Summit, the IBSA
countries welcomed the discussion in the
Inter-Governmental Working Group (IGWG)
on Intellectual Property and Public Health of
the World Health Organization (WHO). They
acknowledged the important role of the WHO
in the discussion of the impacts of intellectual
property protection on public health and on the
access to medicines.
In the 2011 Tshwane Declaration, released
after the fifth IBSA Summit, the IBSA countries
recognized that the effective impact of
intellectual property on health, access to drugs
and prices can best be tackled by enabling
developing nations to scale up production of
generic medicines through the full use of the
flexibilities provided by the TRIPS agreement,
in accordance with the Doha Declaration on
TRIPS and Public Health, and, with the support
of the World Health Organization (WHO),
through the Global Strategy on Public Health,
Innovation and Intellectual Property.
Given the thrust made by the IBSA countries
on resolving the issue of the impact of IPRs
on health and access to medical products, and
given the notion that the TRIPS flexibilities
provided for public health, under Doha
Declaration, may not be sufficient to deal with
crises such as COVID-19 pandemic, a common
IBSA position on the recent joint proposal made
by India and South Africa at the WTO on TRIPS
Waiver on COVID-19-related vaccines and
medical products, should be explored.
In 2007, a Memorandum of Cooperation
(MoU) on participation in the field of health
and medicine between the IBSA countries
was signed in Pretoria. Areas selected for the
cooperation among the three Parties included
HIV/AIDS, TB, Malaria, pharmaceuticals,
vaccines, medicines, Traditional Medicine and
disease surveillance.  In light on the COVID-19
pandemic, there is a need to provide greater
thrust in exploring the IBSA cooperation in the
health sector.
The enhanced entrepreneurial collaboration
among pharmaceutical enterprises, generic
drugs and vaccine manufacturers, medical
device and diagnostics kits manufacturers of
the three IBSA countries would go a long way
in ensuring the availability of affordable and
accessible medical products for the societies of
not only these three countries but also to many
developing countries and LDCs across the
world.  Chaturvedi (2011) in a very detailed case
study on India-Brazil cooperation in the health
sector had argued that there is a lot of scope for
enhanced cooperation not only between India
and Brazil but also within the IBSA countries,
which would further foster the South-South
Cooperation (SSC).
WHO Reforms
In light of the increasing health emergencies and
public health threats, especially those related to
pandemics and epidemics, a coordinated and
prompt global response is required. There is
an imperative to ensure that the global health
governance and the support structures with
the WHO at its core are robust and suited to
deal with such situations. Last year, owing to
the COVID-19 pandemic, all the three IBSA
countries along with many other countries
moved a resolution in the 73
rd World Health
Assembly towards building and strengthening
the capacities of WHO at all levels to fully and
effectively perform the functions entrusted to
it under the International Health Regulations
(2005).
On WHO reforms, following set
of recommendations have been made by

55
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
India in 2020 (MoHFW, 2020). All these
recommendations are relevant for all the
developing countries including IBSA countries.
• Funding: Increasing the regular budget
of the WHO so that most of the care
activities, including the health emergencies
programme, are financed from it, without
putting an overwhelming financial burden
on developing countries.
• Ensuring transparency of funding mechanism
and accountability framework: Establishing
strong and robust financial accountability
frameworks will enable maintaining
integrity in financial flows. It is also
crucial to establish a significant amount of
transparency with respect to data reporting
and disbursement of funds for increased
accountability. It is also important to
strengthen the effectiveness, and efficiency
of various funding mechanisms e.g.
WHO Solidarity Response Fund, WHO
Foundation and Strategic Preparedness and
Response Plan (SPRP).
• Strengthening the Public Health Emergency
of International Concern (PHEIC) declaration
process: The DG WHO should be allowed
to declare a PHEIC if in his/her assessment
there is a broad agreement, though not
a consensus, within the IHR Emergency
Committee.
• Enhancement of the response capacities of the
WHO and the Member States: It is important
that the programmatic activities carried out
by the WHO, under its General Programme
of Work, should focus on building and
strengthening capacities in member states as
required under IHR 2005, which are found
lacking or deficient on the basis of the self-
reporting on IHR 2005 done by the Member
States. WHO may support creation of IHR
technical and core competencies in each
country so as to facilitate broad uniformity
in country responses.
• Improvement of the WHO’s governance
structure: The two policy-making organs of
the WHO i.e. the World Health Assembly
and the Executive Board are currently
playing a peripheral role. (This is more
pronounced in the case of the Executive
Board). It is necessary for this oversight
mechanism to be strengthened and the
inputs of Member States to be integrated.
• Access to therapeutics, vaccines and diagnostics:
It has been felt that the TRIPS flexibilities
provided for public health, under Doha
Declaration, may not be sufficient to deal
with crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
There have been instances of restrictions on
trade in public health goods in the initial
phase of COVID-19. Also, as a reflection
of vaccine nationalism, some developed
countries have been signing bilateral
agreements with vaccine manufacturers,
leaving very little space for developing
countries to get fair, affordable and equitable
access to the same. Lack of awareness of
TRIPS flexibilities and an enabling national
mechanism has made it difficult for the
developing countries to benefit from these
provisions. Therefore, it is important to
ensure fair, affordable, and equitable
access to all tools for combating COVID-19
pandemic and, therefore, the need to build
a framework for their allocation. The WHO
is working in this direction and its work
should be supported.
• Global public good: The tools for COVID-19
pandemic such as vaccines are a global
public good and TRIPS waiver as proposed
by India and South Africa would go a
long way in the effective international and
national response to COVID-19 pandemic.
It is also important to develop a global
framework or specialised protocols for
benefit sharing for non-influenza pandemics
on the lines of PIP Framework consistent
with the objectives of the CBD and its
Nagoya Protocol.
• Creation of Global Framework for Management
of Infectious Diseases and Pandemics: There is a
need to create a monitoring mechanism and

56
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
support to member states on International
Health Regulations, preparedness of
infrastructure, human resources and
relevant health systems capacities such as
testing and surveillance systems.
The IBSA cooperation on the issue of WHO
reforms would lead to enhanced collective
positioning of the IBSA countries on the
issues related to public health and would help
in putting forth a collective stance with the
Southern narrative at the global healthcare
governance architecture.
IBSA, Biodiversity Conservation
and CBD
IBSA countries are classified as three of the 17
richest countries in biodiversity in the world,
and have nine out of 36 biodiversity hotspots
in the world i.e. one-fourth of world’s total
biodiversity hotspots are located exclusively
in the Indian, Brazilian and South African
territories. India has four of these hotspots i.e.
the Western Ghats, the Eastern Himalayas,
the Indo-Burma region and the Sundaland;
while Brazil has two biodiversity hotspots i.e.
the Atlantic Forest and the Cerrado. South
Africa has three such hotspots i.e. the Cape
Floristic Region, the Succulent Karoo, and the
Maputaland-Pondoland-Albany. The IBSA
countries are thus very rich in biodiversity
resources.
Loss of biodiversity has become a critical
concern globally, due to its strong linkages
with the challenges of climate change and
food security. Biodiversity is also a key factor
for the achievement of many SDGs too. Given
this, concerted global, regional and national
efforts are required to arrest the biodiversity
losses and to ensure net improvements. The
CBD’s overarching vision of “Living in Harmony
with the Nature by 2050 “ has assumed greater
significance in the recent times, particularly
in light of the upcoming COP15 of the CBD,
in which a new Post-2020 Global Biodiversity
Framework is expected to be adopted. Being
biodiversity-rich countries, the three IBSA
countries have a lot at stake and there is a
need for them to keep pursuing their demands
for developing fair and equitable governance
architecture.
IBSA Cooperation in Biodiversity
Conservation
Biodiversity conservation has been accorded
a high priority within IBSA. In the very first
meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Brazil,
South Africa and India in 2003, they placed
special significance on the negotiation of an
international instrument on benefit sharing
under the auspices of the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD), as agreed at the
Johannesburg Summit. They expressed their
agreement that the activities of the Group of
Like-minded Mega diverse Countries, of which
Brazil, South Africa and India are founding
members, should gain even greater importance.
They also emphasised the need to render
the relevant parts of the TRIPS Agreement
compatible with the CBD. In the subsequent
Meetings too, IBSA reiterated the common
position on these lines.
In the Brasilia Declaration released after the
first IBSA Summit in 2006, the Leaders called for
the effective implementation of the Convention
on Biological Diversity (CBD), especially the
rights of countries of origin over their own
genetic resources as well as the protection of
associated traditional knowledge. In this regard,
they highlighted with great appreciation the
presentation in the WTO of the proposal co-
sponsored, among others, by the three IBSA
countries to amend the TRIPS Agreement by
introducing a mandatory requirement for the
disclosure of the origin of biological resources
and/or associated traditional knowledge
used in inventions for which applications for
intellectual property rights are filed.
In the 2007 New Delhi Ministerial
Communiqué, the IBSA Foreign Ministers
reiterated the same position and also reaffirmed

57
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
their support for the principle of prior informed
consent and equitable benefit sharing. In the
2008 Somerset West Ministerial Communiqué,
the IBSA Foreign Ministers highlighted the
need to adopt an international regime to protect
and safeguard the fair and equitable sharing
of benefits arising from the use of genetic
resources and traditional knowledge and urged
to conclude the negotiation process for such
an international regime, within the framework
of the CBD, by 2010.  In the 2008 Third IBSA
Summit New Delhi Declaration, the three
countries also recognized the positive role of
the IBSA Forum in enhancing the coordination
within the Group of Like Minded Megadiverse
Countries, of which the three countries are
members, in the context of ABS negotiations.
All the IBSA Member countries are Parties
to the Convention of Biological Diversity
(CBD) and to the two related Protocols viz.
Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB) and
Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit
Sharing. India has been Party to the CBD since
1994, to the CPB since 2003 and to the Nagoya
Protocol since 2014. Similarly, Brazil is Party
to the CBD since 1994, and to the CPB since
2004; however, it became Party to the Nagoya
Protocol recently in 2021 itself. South Africa,
on the other hand, is Party to the CBD since
1996, to the CPB since 2003 and to the Nagoya
Protocol since 2014. The continuous cooperation
among the IBSA Member countries on issues
related to biodiversity and push for adoption
of an international regime for ABS within the
CBD Framework, bore fruit and the Nagoya
Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing (ABS)
was adopted at the tenth COP Meeting in 2010
at Nagoya, Japan.
The IBSA Working Group on Environment
was established in 2008 and a trilateral MoU on
Cooperation in the Field of Environment among
the IBSA countries was also finalised during the
IBSA Summit in New Delhi in the same year.
The main objective of the MoU was to promote a
common beneficial partnership among the three
IBSA countries in the field of environmental
management and sustainable development with
a particular focus on biodiversity climate change
issues, land degradation and desertification.
The Environment MoU provided the ideal
basis for the three parties to cooperate on
environmental issues, share experiences and
views amongst each other and develop common
positions and approaches on key environment
and sustainable development issues for COPs
of important Multilateral Environmental
Agreements (MEAs) such as UN CBD, UNFCC,
UNCCD, etc.
Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework
Being Parties to the CBD, the IBSA Member
countries have acknowledged the concern
relating to the biodiversity conservation in
the face of its continuing loss. They have also
expressed their concern regarding the non-
fulfilment of Aichi Biodiversity Targets that
were set for the period of 2011-2020 as part of
the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020,
agreed by the Parties in 2010. All three countries
mark the 2050 Vision of the Strategic Plan i.e.
‘Living in Harmony with Nature’, as relevant
for any future Strategy. In light of the recent
discussions around the development of  the
Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework at
the CBD, all the three IBSA Member countries
in their individual submissions, have pitched
for developing the next set of goals and targets
by following SMART (Specific, Measurable,
Ambitious, Realistic and Time-bound) approach.
They have strongly argued for integrating
the means of implementation and resource
mobilisation within the new Framework
itself. These means of implementation include
provisions for financing biodiversity actions,
scientific and technological cooperation
and technology transfer. The IBSA Member
countries have stated the need for developing
an effective funding strategy. In addition to the
existing Global Environment Facility (GEF), the
possibility of developing additional biodiversity
funds like LDN (Land Degradation Neutrality)

58
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Fund (operating within United Nations Convention
to Combat Desertification) or GCF (Green Climate
Fund) (operating within the UNFCCC) can be
considered for exploring innovative financing
mechanisms.
All the three IBSA Member countries have
expressed the essentiality for aligning the
new biodiversity framework with the Agenda
2030 for SDGs. The latent connection between
biodiversity and the SDGs is very much eminent
in the context of food and nutrition security,
energy security, climate change, sustainable
consumption and production, among other
aspects. In addition, the new Framework
should also be linked with the Paris Climate
Agreement, UNCCD’s Land Degradation
Neutrality Goal, UN Strategic Plan for Forests
2017-2020 and Ramsar Strategic Plan 2016-2024.
Digital Sequence Information (DSI) and
Access	and	Benefit	Sharing	(ABS)
On the issue of Access and Benefit Sharing
(ABS) too, all the three IBSA Member countries
have effective regulations and guidelines in
place to ensure fair and equitable sharing
of benefits arising out of the use of genetic
resources. In light of the recent developments
in the field of Digital Sequence Information
(DSI), all the three IBSA Member countries have
stated that the issue of accessing DSI amounts
to accessing the genetic resources (GR) itself
and their utilisation would fall within the scope
of CBD/Nagoya Protocol, qualifying for the
application of ABS regulatory framework that
exists within each of these countries. However,
they have also expressed their concerns in terms
of the challenge in the context of identification
of contributions, users and place of origin;
monitoring and utilisation, including the issue
of traceability of use of DSI especially when it is
freely available in public databases. They have
also expressed the need for building the capacity
to handle these technological advancements.
In India, the ABS provisions of CPB and the
Nagoya Protocol are implemented inter alia
through the Biological Diversity Act 2002 and
the regulations thereunder. In Brazil, it’s the
Law No. 13,123/2015 that regulates the ABS
provisions; while in South Africa, the 2013
Amendment to the National Environmental
Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004 regulates
the ABS provisions.
Review of Article 27.3 (b)
On the issue of review of the TRIPS Article
27.3(b), which deals with patentability or non-
patentability of plant and animal inventions,
and the protection of plant varieties, the IBSA
countries have been collaborating since very
early. A group represented by Brazil and
India and including Bolivia, Colombia, Cuba,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Peru, Thailand,
and supported by the African group and some
other developing countries, wants to amend
the TRIPS Agreement so that patent applicants
are required to disclose the country of origin of
genetic resources and traditional knowledge
used in the inventions, the evidence that
they received “prior informed consent”, and
the evidence of “fair and equitable” benefit
sharing. As per Paragraph 19 of the 2001 Doha
Declaration [that has widened the scope of the
discussion on the TRIPS Agreement requiring
a review of Article 27.3(b)], the TRIPS Council
should delve into the links between the
TRIPS Agreement and the UN Convention on
Biological Diversity, the protection of traditional
knowledge and folklore and, in this regard take
into account development issues as well. India,
Brazil and South Africa have kept the focus on
various aspects of this issue including making
amendments to the TRIPS Agreement to ensure
that patent applications have to ‘to disclose
the source and country of origin of biological
resources and/or traditional knowledge used in
an invention’ as well as regarding the ‘evidence
of receiving prior informed consent and that of
fair and equitable benefit sharing’.
With IBSA countries coming together in
this regard in other multilateral forums such
as WHO, WIPO and FAO, further trilateral
cooperation on taking forward efforts on

59
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
ensuring “a common framework for preventing
unsustainable use of genetic resources” will be
crucial. To check the misappropriation and bio-
piracy, and to ensure traceability, there is a need
to continue IBSA countries’ coordination and
cooperation towards developing a consensus
for the ‘Common Mandatory Disclosure
Requirement’ regarding genetic resources
and associated traditional knowledge at the
WTO TRIPS Council and at WIPO IGC. There
is also a need to strengthen the W52 coalition
group in this regard at the WTO. The topic
is also important from the perspective of
meeting the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDG 2.5 and 15.6).  However, these issues
have been on the agenda since long and very
little progress have been made (RIS, 2015).
The bottlenecks in establishing a mandatory
disclosure requirement at the international
level are unlikely to be overcome in the near
future too.
Nutritional Security and Traditional Crops
Ensuring nutritional security is critical for the
achievement of SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). The
IBSA Member countries have acknowledged
the key role that various local and traditional
crops could play towards this, given their
high nutritious value, but at the same time,
expressed their concern about the continued
marginalisation/negligence of many such
native and traditional crops, which has also
contributed to the erosion of biodiversity across
many countries and regions. In this context,
there is an imperative for concerted action in
this regard and to explore ways of supporting
and promoting the use of neglected/orphaned
crops within IBSA and other countries. To this
end, the decision of UN to declare 2023 as the
International Year of Millets after the adoption
of the Resolution, sponsored by India and
supported by more than 70 countries including
Brazil and South Africa, is a welcome step.
The IBSA Member countries need to promote
cooperation in undertaking joint research in this
topic of mutual concern.
Conclusion
As discussed in this chapter, it is quite evident
that the IBSA countries have been cooperating
on many key issues such as trade governance,
climate change, healthcare, protection of
Traditional Knowledge and biodiversity
conservation ever since the inception of the
trilateral grouping. Their cooperation has
often yielded productive results in many of
these domains, which also provides a Southern
narrative on key global issues. Given the
contemporary and emerging challenges, the
enhanced cooperation and partnership among
the IBSA countries would further place forth a
strong message at the various global governance
platforms towards their reforms to make them
more participatory, inclusive and responsive to
the needs of developing countries and LDCs.
On the issue of global trade governance,
despite some differences on the need to
protect their national interests, IBSA countries
have chosen a constructive approach that
will strengthen their cooperation and avoid
situations leading to conflicts. They are now
representatives of the developing world on
global platforms such as G20 or when they
are called as invitees to the G7 meetings
where global trade governance issues are
also discussed. IBSA Summit Declarations
and IBSA Trilateral Ministerial Commission
meetings have laid emphasis on coordination
and cooperation in pushing the development
agenda at multilateral organizations including
WTO and the World Intellectual Property
Organization. There is now a revival of
interest in strengthening the IBSA alliance on
various global, regional and trilateral issues.
The three economies are also interdependent.
Therefore, India, Brazil and South Africa are
now in an ideal position to make use of past
experiences regarding developing country
collaboration and coalition-building as well as
the knowledge and understanding gained from
their trilateral cooperation initiatives to address
areas of common interest in the WTO and other
multilateral forums.

60
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
On the issue of climate change, it is quite
evident that the three countries have been
placing a great deal of attention and voicing
their concern on the seriousness of the challenge
of climate change ever since their first meeting
as a grouping in 2003, not only for them but
for all the developing countries and LDCs.
The articulation of climate change as a “Global
Public Good” in 2008 New Delhi Declaration,
called for an effective and urgent international
cooperation and support from the developed
countries in terms of technology transfer,
capacity building and financial support to the
developing countries. However, even after
more than a decade, many of the issues stay as
it is, with no or very little progress. The three
IBSA countries should keep on cooperating on
this agenda and keep pushing for the global
action within the Paris Agreement framework to
achieve a tangible and concrete outcome based
on the UNFCCC principle of CBDR-RC.
The IBSA countries, cooperation and support
in the launch of International Biofuels Forum
in 2007 after establishing the IBSA Trilateral
Task Team on Biofuels in 2006 itself, had been
a remarkable endeavour, which could have
paved way for promoting biofuels as a cost-
effective and immediate measure to address
climate change accessible to developing
countries. Unfortunately, due to the lack of
adequate support from the global agencies
and developed countries, the International
Biofuels Forum could not sustain itself. It’s
high time that the IBSA countries reinvigorate
their joint efforts towards pushing for the
technology development for bio-fuels including
the creation of a market. There is an ample
scope for deepening the IBSA cooperation on
clean technologies such as renewables (solar,
wind), hydrogen and bioenergy.  It is, therefore,
clear that on the issue of climate change, the
cooperation among IBSA countries has been
going ever since the inception of the grouping
and they have been quite vocal in flagging the
seriousness of the topic within the UNFCCC.
There is an ample scope of strengthening the
cooperation among IBSA countries on the issue
of climate change and this need to be further
explored and enhanced, particularly in light of
the upcoming COP26 of the UNFCCC.
On the issue of healthcare, the IBSA countries
have been cooperating on many fronts since
quite a long. They have reiterated the need to
reduce major trade barriers to facilitate access
to new affordable quality vaccines, medicines,
diagnostics and technology aimed at preventing
and controlling infectious diseases, and
underscored that the flexibilities contained in
the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects
of Intellectual Property Rights, recognized by
the Doha Ministerial Declaration on TRIPS and
Public Health, should be fully used to protect
public health. However, there should also be
a thrust on presenting a collective support on
some of the matters which are significant to not
only the three IBSA countries but for many of
the developing countries too such as the need
for WTO TRIPS waiver on COVID-19-related
vaccines and medical products and also the
need for reforming the WHO to make it more
inclusive, responsive and effective. There is
also a need to strengthen the entrepreneurial
collaborations within the IBSA countries for the
development of pharmaceuticals, generic drugs,
vaccines, medical devices and diagnostic kits.
On the issue of biodiversity conservation,
all the three IBSA countries have been actively
cooperating ever since the inception of IBSA
and have been collectively pushing for the
development of relevant policies/guidelines
at CBD. However, there are still many areas
where the joint collective efforts need to be
pursued to get the desired outcomes such
as the call for the review of Article 27. 3 (b),
which has been pending for so long now. Being
biodiversity-rich countries, the issue of fair
and equitable ABS in the context of DSI is a
key concern for the three IBSA countries. IBSA
countries have voiced their individual position
reflecting the challenges in dealing with this.
A collective IBSA stance on this issue could

61
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
be envisaged. The issues of ensuring food and
nutritional security, sustainable agriculture,
production, reduction of carbon foot print,
along with the concerns regarding the climate
change, biodiversity conservation and emerging
technologies are very much related to each
other and pertinent to all the IBSA countries.
Therefore, the IBSA countries need to keep
striving for developing a concerted stance on
the global platforms such as CBD and place
forward the Southern narrative, particularly in
reference to the upcoming COP15 of the CBD.
References
Chaturvedi, Sachin. (2011). “South-South Cooperation
in Health and Pharmaceuticals: Emerging Trends
in India-Brazil Collaborations”. Discussion Paper.
No. 172. RIS. New Delhi.
Flemes, D. (2009). India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) in
the new global order: interests, strategies and
values of the emerging coalition. International
Studies, 46(4), 401-421.
Ismail, F. (2006). From the Hong Kong WTO Ministerial
Conference to the Suspension of the Negotiations.
World Economics, 7(3), 133-166.
Government of Canada website on TISA https://www.
international.gc.ca/trade-agreements-accords-
commerciaux/topics-domaines/services/tisa-
acs.aspx?lang=eng
Government of India. (2019). IBSA Joint Statement on
the Reform of the Multilateral System. Ministry
of External Affairs. 27 September. https://www.
mea.gov.in/bilateral-documents.htm?dtl/31871/
IBSA+Joint+Statement+on+the+Reform+of+the+
Multilateral+System
Government of India. (2020). Investment Cooperation
and Facilitation Treaty Between the Federal
Republic of Brazil and the Republic of India. 25
January. https://www.dea.gov.in/sites/default/
files/Investment%20Cooperation%20and%20
Facilitation%20Treaty%20with%20Brazil%20
-%20English_0.pdf
Government of India. (2021). Statement by India-
Delivered by Ambassador & PR to the WTO.
General Council Meeting - 27th-28th July.
https://www.pmindiaun.gov.in/public_files/
assets/pdf/Agenda_Item_No_7.pdf
Ismail, F. (2006). From the Hong Kong WTO Ministerial
Conference to the Suspension of the Negotiations.
World Economics, 7(3), 133-166.
Kanth, D. (2021). G90 calls for outcome on S&DT at
MC12. Third World Network. 30 July. https://
www.twn.my/title2/unsd/2021/unsd210717.
htm
Mano, A. (2019). Brazil’s new status would not affect
prior ag commitments: WTO chief. Reuters. 21
March. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-
brazil-trade-idUSKCN1R12NW
Mazenda, A., Masiya, T., & Nhede, N.T. (2018). South
Africa-BRIC-SADC Trade Alliances and the South
African Economy. International Studies, 55, 61 - 74.
Mohanty, S.K and P. Gaur. (2021). “Fisheries Subsidy
Issues before the MC12 Lessons from the May
Text for the July Meeting”. Discussion Paper. No.
264. RIS. New Delhi.
MoHFW, 2020. Approach on WHO Reforms. Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare. Government of India.
Peres, A. (2021). From Opposition to Leadership:
the Brazilian Engagement in Negotiating an
Investment Facilitation Agreement in the WTO.
June 30. https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801688 or
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3801688
RIS.  (2015). World Trade and Development Report: Mega
Regionals, WTO and New Issues, Research and
Information System for Developing Countries.
New Delhi.
RIS. (2019). Dynamics of IBSA Development Cooperation.
https://www.ris.org.in/dynamics-ibsa-
development-cooperation
Schneider-Petsinger, M. (2020). Reforming the
World Trade Organization: Prospects for
transatlantic cooperation and the global trade
system. Chatham House. September. https://
www.chathamhouse.org/sites/default/files/
publications/research/2020-09-11-reforming-
wto-schneider-petsinger.pdf.pdf
VanGrasstek, C. (2013). The history and future of
the World Trade Organization. World Trade
Organization. https://www.wto.org/english/
res_e/booksp_e/historywto_e.pdf
WTO. (2011). Friends of Development - Ministerial
Declaration. WT/MIN(11)/17. 16 December.
https://docs.wto.org/dol2fe/Pages/SS/
directdoc.aspx?filename=Q:/WT/MIN11/17.
pdf&Open=True
WTO. (2017). Report of the meeting held on 16 and 17
March 2017 - Note by the Secretariat. https://
docs.wto.org/dol2fe/Pages/FE_Search/FE_S_
S009-DP.aspx?language=E&CatalogueIdList=23
6704,235083,234902,234548,233629,231414,231415
,231398,230584,87701&CurrentCatalogueIdIndex
=0&FullTextHash=&HasEnglishRecord=True&H
asFrenchRecord=True&HasSpanishRecord=True

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
62
WTO. (2019a). Strengthening the WTO to promote
development and inclusivity. WT/GC/W/778/
Rev.1. 22 July. WTO. (2019b). Appellate Body
appointments. WT/DSB/W/609/Rev.14. 20
September. https://docs.wto.org/dol2fe/Pages/
SS/directdoc.aspx?filename=q:/WT/DSB/
W609R14.pdf&Open=True
WTO. (2019c). An Undifferentiated WTO: Self-
Declared Development Status Risks Institutional
Irrelevance. Communication From The
United States. WT/GC/W/757. World Trade
Organisation. 16 January.
WTO. (2020a). Importance of market-oriented
conditions to the world trading system -
statement from Brazil and the United States.
WT/GC/W/803. 21 July. https://docs.wto.org/
dol2fe/Pages/SS/directdoc.aspx?filename=q:/
WT/GC/W803.pdf&Open=True
WTO. (2020b). Strengthening the WTO to promote
development and inclusivity. Communication
from the African group, Cuba and India.
WT/GC/W/778/Rev.3. 4 December 2020.
https://web.wtocenter.org.tw/DownFile.
aspx?pid=348799&fileNo=0
WTO. (2020c). Supporting the conclusion of fisheries
subsidies negotiations for the sustainability of the
ocean and fishing communities. WT/GC/W/815.
21 December. https://docs.wto.org/dol2fe/
Pages/FE_Search/FE_S_S009-DP.aspx?languag
e=E&CatalogueIdList=269652&CurrentCatalog
ueIdIndex=0&FullTextHash=371857150&HasEn
glishRecord=True&HasFrenchRecord=False&H
asSpanishRecord=False
WTO. (2020d). Waiver from certain provisions of the
TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment
and treatment of COVID-19. IP/C/W/669. 2
October. https://docs.wto.org/dol2fe/Pages/
SS/directdoc.aspx?filename=q:/IP/C/W669.
pdf&Open=True
WTO. (2020e). June 2020 statement of the Ottawa
Group: focusing action on COVID-19. WT/
GC/217. 16 June.
WTO. (2020f). Work programme on electronic
commerce - The e-commerce moratorium: scope
and impact. WT/GC/W/798. 10 March.
WTO. (2021a). The continued relevance of Special and
Differential Treatment in favour of developing
members to promote development and ensure
inclusiveness. WT/GC/W/765/Rev.2.
WTO. (2021b). Waiver from certain provisions of the
TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment
and treatment of COVID-19. IP/C/W/669/Rev.1.
25 May. https://docs.wto.org/dol2fe/Pages/
SS/directdoc.aspx?filename=q:/IP/C/W669R1.
pdf&Open=True
WTO. (2021c). COVID-19 and beyond: trade and health.
WT/GC/W/823. 15 July.
WTO. (2021d). The legal status of ‘joint statement
initiatives’ and their negotiated outcomes. WT/
GC/W/819. 19 February. https://docs.wto.org/
dol2fe/Pages/SS/directdoc.aspx?filename=q:/
WT/GC/W819.pdf&Open=True
Yu, P. K., (2015). Intellectual Property Negotiations,
the BRICS Factor and the Changing North-South
Debate The BRICS-Lawyers’ Guide to Global
Cooperation, Rostam J. Neuwirth, Alexandr
Svetlicinii and Denis De Castro Halis, eds.,
Cambridge University Press, pp. 148-79, 2017,
Texas A&M University School of Law Legal
Studies Research Paper No. 17-05. September 24,
2015). https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665414

63
Introduction
T
he term ‘social inclusion’ over the recent
years has occupied a prominent place in
the international policy debates, as  it is
the process by which efforts are made to ensure
equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of
their background to achieve their full potential
in life.  (UN, DESA). Social inclusion in a true
sense is pro-poor policies that ensure the well-
being of each individual and protect the poor
and vulnerable sections of the society who are
excluded from the mainstream development
policies due to the inherent challenges faced
by them in terms of human vulnerabilities
or natural calamities. As disparities are seen
worldwide in the provision of and access to
basic services, the socially and economically
disadvantaged groups of society, have not
benefitted equally or lagged behind from the
mainstream  development policies, due to deep-
rooted unequal social structures of societies.
The current outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic
has further put forth the issue of systemic
inequalities which has impacted almost all
sections of society over the world, including,
women, youths, children, elderly, persons with
disabilities and others. This unprecedented
situation has resulted in loss of lives, livelihoods,
lifetime earnings, and also revealed poor
quality of healthcare services and education.
At this juncture, the step towards ensuring
social inclusion across the globe becomes a
foremost priority for coping with the immediate
challenges of COVID-19 and helping people to
recover back assumes greater relevance.
In the light of the foregoing discussion,
it is pertinent to highlight that IBSA has
achieved significant progress towards the
goal of social inclusion. Over the years,
IBSA has made concerted efforts to alleviate
poverty and hunger, enhance employment,
and empower women and children, to make
healthcare and education accessible to all by
Inclusive Development
Paradigm: Core of
Socio-Economic Sector
5

64
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
initiating meaningful policy declarations and
communiqués and also coordinating the social
and economic activities through IBSA Funds
projects in the LDCs and developing countries.
The respective member countries of IBSA have
achieved significant progress towards the goal
of social inclusion to maintain social cohesion.
Moreover, the IBSA Facility for Poverty
and Hunger Alleviation (IBSA Fund) is itself
a remarkable example of trilateral cooperation
among three developing countries. Ever since
it became operational in 2006, in pursuit of
promoting access, equity and inclusion it has
genuinely improved the common lives of the
people in developing countries and LDCs
and advancing towards the achievement of
various SDGs. Its purpose is to implement
identified replicable and scalable human centric-
development projects in developing countries in
the fight against poverty and hunger, improved
access to health care, addressing HIV/AIDS,
education, safe drinking water, and sanitation
and food security in an endeavor to achieve
SDGs.
Approach towards Social Inclusion
by IBSA
The objectives of the Brasilia Declaration aim to
promote South-South Cooperation along with
an equal emphasis on the promotion of social
equity and socially inclusive growth through
effective implementation of policies. It also
highlighted the need to promote food security,
access to health care services, social assistance,
education, employment, human rights, tourism,
transport, and environmental protection
(Brasilia Declaration, 2003). Emphasis was on
the importance of trilateral cooperation among
them as an important tool for achieving social
and economic development as their societies
have diverse areas of excellence to generate  the
desired synergy for inclusive development of
their respective countries.
The Trilateral Commission of the IBSA
Dialogue Forum, 2004, which adopted the
‘New Delhi Agenda for Cooperation and
Plan of Action’ stressed to make a significant
contribution to the framework of South-South
Cooperation and aspires to be a positive factor
to advance human development by promoting
potential synergies among the members. The
strategic role of information and communication
technologies has been duly emphasized to
promote social and economic development as an
essential tool for job creation, economic growth
and poverty eradication. Like the commitments
made earlier in Brasilia Declaration, the ‘New
Delhi Agenda for Cooperation and Plan of
Action’ reiterated IBSA’s commitments to
address issues related to elimination of all kinds
of racial discrimination and to promote gender
equality. It also emphasized on mainstreaming
gender perspectives in public policies. As the
digital divide widens, other social divides
such as income, access to education, scientific
and cultural barriers, the Plan of Action called
for joint action in combating the fast-growing
digital divide not only between developed and
developing countries but also within countries.
(IBSA, 5 March 2004).
The Tshwane Declaration, 2011, also
emphasized the necessity to raise voice on
various multilateral fora to highlight the
development priorities of the IBSA countries
accordingly commitments were reaffirmed to
the attainment of MDGs by 2015. India and
South Africa pledged their support for Brazil
for hosting of United Nations Conference on
Sustainable Development in June 2012 in Rio
de Janeiro (Rio + 20 Summit) to secure political
commitment to sustainable development. In
addition to that, IBSA leaders acknowledged
the relevance of various themes like Green
Economy in the context of poverty eradication
and sustainable development and institutional
framework for sustainable development
in implementing the global sustainable
development agenda. They were also convinced
that Rio + 20 could play a significant role in
addressing issues like food price volatility and
food security, energy scarcity and energy access,

65
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
unsustainable patterns of consumption and
production, challenges of rapid urbanization,
land degradation and climate change.
In order to assess the commitment of IBSA
member countries towards the path of social
inclusion, the first section of the paper presents
a brief overview of the institutional mechanism
towards achievements of SDGs. The second
section evaluates the inclusive social policies
initiated by IBSA in their respective countries,
followed by a section on IBSA cooperation in
promoting access, equity, and inclusion in the
domain of financial inclusion and digital public
goods. The concluding section analyzes their
continued commitments to strengthen trilateral
cooperation and suggests a way forward.
Going Forward - Achieving SDGs
In view of the rankings of IBSA in Human
Development Index (HDI), Brazil is considerably
better ranked than India and South Africa, as it
occupies the 84
th position, while India and South
Africa occupy 131th   and 114th rank respectively
out of total 189 countries. (HDR, 2020)   Table 1
Table 1 Total Population in IBSA Population, total (millions)
Country  2005 2011 2015 2019
Brazil 186.13 197.51 204.47 211.05
India 1147.61 1250.29 1310.15 1366.42
South Africa 47.88 52.00 55.39 58.56
Source: The World Bank, WDI
Table 2 Health System Indicators: IBSA
 Year  2005 2011 2015 2019
Life Expectancy at birth, Total (Years)
Brazil 71.90 73.92 74.99 75.88
India 64.50 67.13 68.61 69.66
South Africa 53.45 58.90 62.65 64.13
Life Expectancy at birth, Female (Years)
Brazil 75.78 77.66 78.70 79.56
India 65.36 68.22 69.84 70.95
South Africa 55.93 61.94 66.11 67.68
Life Expectancy at birth, Male (Years)
Brazil 68.17 70.27 71.35 72.24
India 63.69 66.12 67.47 68.46
South Africa 51.10 55.99 59.34 60.73
Maternal mortality Rate (national estimate,
per 100,000 live births)
Brazil 71 61 63 60*
India 286 197 158 133*
South Africa 1480 1070 1110 1150*
Infant mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)
Brazil 22 16 14 12.4
India 55.7 43 34.9 28.3
South Africa 48.2 30.5 28.5 27.5
Under-5, mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)
Brazil 24.7 17.9 15.7 13.9
India 74.5 55.1 43.5 34.3
South Africa 79.1 44.8 37.1 34.5
Source: The World Bank, WDI, HDR
Notes: *figures for year 2017
MMR source: HDR data source. http://hdr.undp.org/en/indicators/89006
Maternal mortality ratio (deaths per 100,000 live births)

66
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
on total population in IBSA reveals that India
has the highest population as this is the second
most populated country in the world with a
population of over 1.36 billion in 2019 and Brazil
with 211 million followed by South Africa’s
population is only 58 million in 2019.
There have been some improvements in
the health outcomes in IBSA as evident from
the Table 2, which presents data on the total
life expectancy at birth, the life expectancy of
females and males at birth, maternal and infant
mortality rates, mortality ratios under the age
of 5 during 2005-2019, in these countries.
During the period 2005-2019, India and
Brazil have shown some improvements in the
overall life expectancy which has increased
by merely one year from 2015. Brazil has the
highest life expectancy at birth as compared to
the other IBSA member countries. Furthermore,
the situation of women in these countries is
not satisfactory as clearly reflected in maternal
mortality rates (MMR) figures. However, in
South Africa, the position of women needs dire
attention with the MMR being 1150 as against
133 and 60 for India and Brazil respectively
in 2017. On the positive side, there has been
an overall decline in the infant mortality rates
during the same period in all the IBSA countries.
The presentation of these kinds of the health
profile of IBSA countries are quite evident that
at least some improvements are taking place
from 2005 onwards in health indicators of the
country. However, it demands meticulous
trilateral cooperation among IBSA which has
huge potential for strengthening each other’s
strengths by sharing best social inclusive
policies for the achievement of SDGs in their
respective countries.
India
Despite the outbreak of COVID-19, the world
over, sustainable development remains core
to India’s development strategy (Economic
Survey, 2020-21). India’s development agenda
with a dictum of Sabka Saath Saabka Vikas
(Collective Effort for Inclusive Growth) is
completely aligned with the SDGs principle
of ‘leaving no one behind’. India has developed
mechanisms to localize the SDGs and their
implementation process to bring in the sub-
national entities and the sub national institutions
in their conception and execution. The process
of localization of SDGs involves various steps
that involve adapting, planning, implementing
and monitoring the SDGs from national to local
levels by relevant institutions and stakeholders.
(Economic Survey 2020-21). In order to achieve
SDGs within the stipulated time period,
various social inclusive policies have been
initiated at the national and sub national level
to mainstream the SDGs in the fight against
poverty, improvement in health, education,
livelihoods, skills for entrepreneurship and
employment. The Government of India is
empowering millions of lives and future of
millions of Indians through Jan Dhan Yojana ,
a financial inclusion programme to give
access to banking services to every household,
financial literacy, access to credit and insurance
and pension facilities. An overarching social
inclusion policy that ensures direct subsidies
to get it deposited in bank accounts in the form
of direct benefit transfers. Similarly, under
PAHAL Yojana, LPG subsidies are directly
deposited into the bank accounts of the women
beneficiaries. Apart from providing banking
services, in pursuance to social inclusion,
Government also moved ahead to provide
insurance and pension covers to its citizens
through Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
which provides accident insurance worth Rs 2
Lakh at just Rs 12 per year. Pradhan Mantri Jivan
Jyoti Bima Yojana provides life insurance at just
Rs 330 per year and Atal Pension Yojana provides
a pension of upto Rs 5000 a month depending
on the contribution.
In order to boost entrepreneurship among
the youths, and make India self-reliant, the
‘Make in India’ initiative is based on four
pillars i.e. new processes which recognizes
‘ease of doing business’ as the single most factor

67
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
to promote entrepreneurship. Government
in their endeavor to develop state of the art
industrial corridors and smart cities, believes
that  availability of modern infrastructure
is another pillar for the growth of industry
through modern high-speed communication
and state of the art technology is the need of
the hour. For that twenty five sectors have been
identified in the manufacturing, infrastructure
and services sectors, in order to provide jobs
and entrepreneurial skills to youth in nation
building. The two other flagship programmes
viz. Startup India and Skill India are the major
initiatives to enhance the employability of the
youths by providing skills to dropout students
and existing workers. Skill India scheme
enables a large number of youths to take up
industry level skill training for securing a better
livelihood through entrepreneurship.
In India, there has been considerable
improvement in the social sectors like healthcare,
education, poverty reduction, gender equality,
availability of clean water and sanitation and
employment through the concerted efforts to
boost social infrastructure and the progress
across the SDGs. India’s flagship programmes
like Ayushman Bharat, with its two components
health and wellness centers to provide primary
health care and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya
Yojana (PMJAY) to provide health cover to
poor and vulnerable families up to Rs 5 lakh
per family per year for secondary and tertiary
hospitalizations speaks volume of India’s vision
for a healthy India. PMJAY is the world’s largest
health insurance scheme and can be considered
as the stepping stone towards providing
affordable healthcare services to the poor.
As India is working on a holistic and
inclusive health model, the countrywide launch
of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM)
is a historic initiative that has the potential
of bringing revolutionary transformation in
India’s health facilities. It aims to give every
citizen a unique digital health ID in which
their personal health records will be digitally
protected along with the link to their Aadhaar
card. This process will not only simplify
the hospital procedures but also ease the
patients’ mental trauma in dealing with undue
formalities of the hospital. Accordingly, this
model would emphasize on preventive health
care and in case of disease, there are provisions
of easy, affordable and accessible treatment for
all. This e-Health system would further enable
digital consultation across the country and with
the consent of patients, online sharing of their
health records across the country by medical
practitioners is an added advantage. At the
outset, ABDM shall create a seamless online
platform “through the provision of a wide
range of data, information and infrastructure
services, duly leveraging open, interoperable,
standard-based digital systems” while ensuring
the security, confidentiality and privacy of
health-related personal information. (https://
abdm.gov.in/home/ndhm)
Under Swachh Bharat Mission- Grameen
(Clean India- Rural) rural sanitation coverage
has increased from 39 per cent in 2014 to
100 per cent in 2019 ensured that no one is
left behind to achieve the goal of the overall
cleanliness of rural India. Similarly, to improve
the quality of life, Jal-Jeevan Mission (JJM) (tap
water supply in households) is envisioned
to provide safe and adequate drinking water
through individual household tap connections
by 2024 to all households in rural India. These
are some of the developmental efforts of India
which are quite evident that it is striving firmly
to consolidate sustainability through social
inclusive development policies towards the
achievement of SDGs.
However, the ongoing pandemic has
somewhat halted the progress towards the
process of achieving the SDGs. Despite this
unprecedented crisis, India announced several
measures to help the low-income families,
particularly women. Under the Pradhan Mantri
Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) fintech and
digital technology have been employed for

68
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
swift and efficient transfer to the beneficiary,
i.e Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) that ensures
that the amount is directly credited into the
account of the beneficiary. Under Atma Nirbhar
Bharat Abhiyan, Government announced a
comprehensive stimulus cum relief package of
Rs. 20 lakh crore during May 2020 apart from
free food grain supply, this scheme has been
extended till November 2021 keeping in mind
the seasons of rains and festivals.
The Government in order to facilitate that no
one should remain hungry at this crucial hour,
distribution of free ration has been outlined
in the plans. In addition, under the Pradhan
Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) provision to
provide LPG cylinders to women beneficiaries
is also planned. Further Government also
announced for 20 crore women Jan Dhan
account holders to get Rs. 500 per month for
next three months. Apart from this, to ensure
the adequate availability of protein in the meals
to all the people, who are below the poverty
line, one kilogram of pulses per family was
proposed and ensured to be provided free of
cost. These progressive steps of Government
must have been highly beneficial for the poor
people especially the women who are engaged
in informal sectors and domestic works during
the lockdown period when most of them
remained unemployed.
According to the Ministry of Finance,
Government of India sources whatever
measures were announced by the Government
to the poor women have been duly fulfilled in
the subsequent months. As part of the Rs. 1.70
lakh crore PMGKP, the Government announced
free food grains and cash payments to women
and poor citizens and farmers. More than 42
crore people received financial assistance of Rs.
65,454 crores under the PMGKP. Under Atma
Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, Government announced
comprehensive stimulus cum relief package of
Rs. 20 lakh crore during May 2020 apart from
free food grain supply and chana (black gram)
to migrants, this scheme has been extended till
November 2021 keeping in mind the seasons of
rains and festivals.
  Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann
Yojana (PMGKAY) Phase VI extended for a
period of another six months i.e. till September
2022 @ 5 Kg ration (rice and wheat) per person,
per month free of cost for all the beneficiaries
covered under the National Food Security
Act (NFSA), including the Direct Benefit
Transfer (DBT) beneficiaries. According to the
Government estimates, with the subsequent
extension of PMGKAY, the aggregate allocation
of free foodgrains now stands at 1003 LMT
of food grains. (PIB, Government of India, 26
March 2022). ‘One nation, one ration card’ was
also launched in some states to enable migrant
beneficiary to access ‘public distribution
system’ dry ration from any fair price shop
in the country. So, over the years, the social
inclusive development and welfare schemes
implemented by the Government along with the
relief measures must have positively impacted
the sizeable proportion of the population,
especially the poor families.
To give a boost to distance learning or online
education efficiently during the outbreak of
COVID-19, under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat
programme in May 2020, a comprehensive PM
eVIDYA initiative was launched for school and
higher education to unite all efforts related
to digital/online/on air-education to enable
multi-mode and equitable access to students
and teachers. All its four components like
DIKSHA, Swayam Prabha, Community radio
and particularly for the differently-abled can
be effectively used by other IBSA member
countries to ensure uninterrupted online classes
for their children studying in schools (Economic
Survey 2020-21, Vol.2).
In the fight against COVID-19, India
assessed and ensured the availability of the
essential medicines, hand sanitizers, protective
equipments like masks, PPE kits, ventilators and
adequate testing and treatment facilities as well
as vaccination of the people. Despite its havoc

69
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
on the economy and social sector development,
the Government of India intervened in a very
systematic manner; as India has one of the
lowest cases of fatality rates of less than 1.5
per cent. The Ministry of Ayush also issued
an advisory regarding self care guidelines
and preventive healthcare measures for
immunity. Vaccine Maitri (Vaccine Friendship)
is a humanitarian initiative of the Government
of India to provide COVID-19 vaccines to
the countries around the world. Under this
initiative, India started sending vaccines and
medicines to its neighboring countries apart
from other countries.
The world’s largest COVID-19 immunization
programme was launched in January 2021
through the two indigenously manufactured
vaccines viz. COVISHIELD and COVAXIN.
In the first round, around three crore frontline
health workers have been vaccinated and in the
second round, elderly, people with serious co-
morbidities are being vaccinated. Furthermore,
Co-WIN software has been developed by
Government for real time information of
vaccine stocks, their storage temperature
and individualized tracking of beneficiaries
for the COVID-19 vaccine has been also
operationalized successfully. (Economic Survey
2020-21). Apart from this, new vaccines have
also been approved like Sputnik, and Zydus etc.
To revive the employment and livelihood
opportunities for returnee migrant workers
and similarly affected citizens in rural areas
under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan with a
total expenditure of   Rs. 392.9 billion, around
507.8 million person-days employment was
generated. This scheme was launched in June
2020 which provided 125 days of employment
in the wake of covid-19 pandemic (PIB, 2021).
Brazil
The Brazilian Federal Government understands
the importance and the guiding role that the
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
have in building a fairer, developed, and
sustainable country. Committed to achieve
the SDGs, the Brazil Government created the
National Commission for the SDGs in 2016
that was replaced by the Special Secretary of
Social Articulation (SEAS) of the Government
Secretariat (SEGOV-PR), as the main body in
charge of coordinating the internalization of
actions of the 2030 Agenda within the Federal
Government and jointly with the Special
Secretary of Federative Affairs with federative
bodies. To face inequalities, the Government
policies need to be aligned with 2030 Agenda
actions at all levels of government. Local
governments shall adapt national targets and
indicators to their local reality through effective
Box 2: Address by India’s Prime Minister at Co-Win Global Conclave 2021,
5 July 2021
Indian civilization considers the whole world as one family. This pandemic has made many people
realize the fundamental truth of this philosophy. That’s why, our technology platform for Covid
vaccination – the platform which we call Co-Win – is being prepared to be made open source. Soon, it
will be available to any and all countries. Today’s Conclave is the first step to introduce this platform
to all of you. This is the platform through which India has administered 350 million doses of COVID
vaccines. A few days ago, we vaccinated about 9 million people in one day. They do not need to
carry around fragile pieces of paper to prove anything. It is all available in digital format. But best
of all, the software can be customized to any country as per their local requirements.
Excerpted from the address delivered by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India at Co-WIN Global Conclave 2021, 5
July 2021. Source: https://www.pmindia.gov.in/en/news_updates/pms-address-at-cowin-global-conclave-
2021/?comment=disable&tag_term=pmspeech.

70
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
planning and budgetary allocation. The
Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
(IBGE) maintains a data repository on Brazilian
indicators (https://odsbrasil.gov.br/), while
the Institute for Applied Economic Research
(IPEA) provides proposals and analyzes of the
2030 Agenda (https://www.ipea.gov.br/ods/).
In pursuit of social inclusion and achievement
of SDGs, Brazil has built upon various policies
to support families and their children based on
a consensus about the need to invest in human-
centric development and economic growth in
the fight against social inequalities. Brazilian
children are in better and safer conditions
with the implementation of the Unified Health
System, the Unified Social Assistance System,
and the right to basic education and greater
access to childcare centres. The Unified Health
System provides basic health care services at
all levels of care, and it also provides almost
70 per cent of hospitalization in the country.
The Crianca Feliz (Happy Child) programme
promotes the integral development of children
through the strengthening of family skills
seeking to contribute to the breaking of the cycle
of poverty and reduction of violence.
Civil Society Working Group for the 2030
Agenda, SDGs Strategy, SDGs Brazil Network
and the Nós Podemos (We Can) National SDGs
Movement are some of the networks that have
been created at both national and sub-national
levels to implement projects and initiatives for
localizing SDGs. Furthermore, Brazilian civil
societies are also responsible for implementing
various proactive roles with an impact on the
social dimension of SDGs, particularly related to
children, youths, gender, issues of inequalities,
labour, disabilities, food and nutrition among
others. Under the PPP model these civil
societies are also implementing projects in the
areas of education, income generation, labour
markets, healthcare practices, reforestation,
water and environmental technologies. To
achieve the targets proposed under SDG
1, the National Policy for Social Assistance
(PNAS), implemented through the Unified
Social Assistance System (SUAS), organizes
the nationwide provision of social assistance
benefits, services, programmes and projects
to reduce poverty and improve the living
conditions of the vulnerable sections of the
society.  Moreover, the Bolsa Familia programme
also plays a very constructive role in enhancing
the incomes of poor and extremely poor
families.
In Brazil, poverty is largely concentrated
among children and people living in rural
areas. Since the middle 1990s Conditional
Cash Transfer Programmes have been widely
implemented aiming to reduce poverty,
inequality, and hunger. Bolsa Familia  (BF) is
a social welfare programme of the Brazilian
Government which provides regular monthly
transfers to poor and extremely poor families
in Brazil. While extreme poor families receive
a basic income and, if necessary, a per capita
transfer to reach the extreme poverty line after
accounting for both the variable benefit for
children and the basic income, poor families
only receive the variable benefit per child,
which is paid preferentially to the women
responsible for the children on the condition
that children attend schools regularly, are fully
vaccinated and pregnant women, if any in the
household, attend prenatal health check-ups.
BF programme can be considered one of the
largest social cash transfers in the world. It is
a rare case of means-tested social assistance
programme in the developing world, but if
anything, its targeting performance is similar
to or even better than other CCT programmes
in the region. The BF programme uses the
Unified Registry - the main social registry
through which low-income families can access
targeted social programmes in Brazil - not only
to select its beneficiaries, but also to inform
complementary programmes with a view to
supporting economic inclusion and providing
a referral to other services. The Unified Registry
was a key tool used to implement Brazil’s

71
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
emergency cash transfer Auxilio Emergencial to
respond to the COVID-19 crisis, covering both
BF beneficiaries, but also low-income families
registered in the Unified Registry, but that were
not eligible for the BF programme. Evaluations
have showed that the BF programme has
been successful in reducing levels of poverty,
inequality, and hunger without generating
negatives impacts in terms of labour force
participation.
In Brazil, there is also a focus on the elimination
of hunger and food insecurity, that has translated
into government initiatives through various
policy measures ranging from social protection
policies, like cash transfer programmes to
strengthen agricultural production through
credit provision and public procurement
from family farmers. One such Program viz.
the programme for Food Acquisition from
Family Agriculture Production (PAA) is also
linked with several SDGs as it promotes family
farming, social and economic inclusion and
boosts sustainable production and income
generation. Moreover, the National School
Meal programme (PNAE) allocates around 30
per cent of the funds for purchasing food items
from small scale farmers for the distribution
of meals to more than 40 million students in
Digital Health Strategy in Brazil
Brazil declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as the public health emergency that required urgent
responses from the Unified Health System (Sistema Unico de Saude, SUS) the Brazilian Public
Health System. The National eHealth Strategy Toolkit, by WHO approved the Brazilian digital
health strategy in 2017 and defined as a fundamental SUS dimension, i.e Conecte SUS, based on
two projects - the National Health Data Network (Rede Nacional de Dados em Saúde, RNDS) which
promotes the exchange of information between different services of the Healthcare Network. It
takes care of digital health applications and electronic health records, portals, and mobile apps for
all the citizens. During the pandemic outbreak in Brazil, RNDS became the repository of COVID-19
national data, the other program to support Computerization Qualification of Primary Health
Care Data (Programa de Apoio a Informatizacao e Qualificacao dos Dados da Atencao Primaria a Saude,
Informatiza APS) aims to support computerization of health units and the qualification of primary
health care data across the country.
Initially in 2019, Conecte SUS was started as a pilot project in one State with a proposal to
expand it later throughout in Brazil. However in between in March 2020 amidst COVID-19, SUS IT
Department (DATASUS) established the New Corona virus Crisis Committee for evaluating new
health management technologies to assist the Ministry of Health with an objective to adopt series of
strategies for efficient response to the virus in coordination with public and private health systems.
The contingency plan prepared by DATASUS adopted some specific strategies like creation of an
app related to the virus (Coronavirus SUS app), restructuring of a web-based notification system,
a web-based panel of official disease data and use of telemedicine. This app includes various
unique features like list of different symptoms of COVID-19, suggests ways to prevent it, actions
to be taken in case of suspected infection, indicates nearby health centres location etc. Basically it
facilitates the user to get access to their health records, concerning COVID-19 and based on their
health data, app recommends certain guidelines for the user. The latest updated version of the app
is well equipped to give warning if the user has physically approached someone infected with virus
in the previous fourteen days.
It is a centralized digital app that all citizens can access remotely that brings health services during
the outbreak of COVID-19 for their entire health system
Source : Donida, Bruna & Others, 2021).

72
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
schools, thereby inculcating healthy nutritional
habits among school-going children.
The Emergency Aid, the most important
social protection measure, with investments of
almost US$ 60 billion, the program has already
made monthly payments to more than 67.8
million citizens, assuring them direct positive
impact on the lives of more than 126.5 million
Brazilians. Moreover, as an additional measure,
Brazilian Government decided to expand the
Bolsa Familia program, adding 1.2 million new
families.
South Africa
Likewise, to achieve inclusive growth and
sustainable development, South Africa is
committed to achieve the goals of Agenda 2030
and the African Union’s Agenda 2063 – ‘the
Africa We Want’. In fact, South Africa played
a very significant role during the initializing of
these global goals. For that, the Government
has created a national institutional mechanism
comprised a national government, provincial
and local government, Parliament, civil society,
private sector and academia, the United
Nations, the AU, SADC and other development
partners in monitoring the achievement
of SDGs. It is a good opportunity as South
Africa’s National Development Plan (NDP),
the strategic document of the Government’s
roadmap for social and economic development
programmes is quite similar to the broad
objectives of SDGs. The NDP of South Africa
focuses more or less on the broad objectives
specified in SDGs, particularly in areas related
to enhancing employment, by pacing up
economic growth, including the quality of
education, promoting skill development and
innovation, emphasizing more on building the
capabilities for development and other related
areas, to cover all segments of the population.
These social inclusive goals specified in NDP
will facilitate the accomplishments of SDGs.
Improvement in education level will lead to
higher employment and related opportunities
which in turn enhance the earnings and also
create a pool of skilled workers for improving
the services sector.
As envisaged by SDGs to cover ‘leaving no
one behind’ the South Africa’s development
programme lays special emphasis on
identification and serving the most
disadvantaged groups by allocating adequate
resources to provide free education and free
primary health care services to reach every
disadvantaged group. This initiative has
led to the accomplishing universal literacy,
enhanced access to primary education and
considerable decline in maternal and child
mortality rates. Various legal provisions have
been initiated to reduce the discrimination
against women and also to protect them from
gender-based violence. Providing employment
and skills training opportunities to the youths
has been one of the major initiatives to reduce
unemployment rates. According to World
Bank Report, 2018, South Africa spends more
on various social assistance programmes
compared to many other developing countries.
South Africa spends 3.3 per cent of GDP on the
social safety net, as against an average of 1.5
per cent in upper middle-income countries and
1.9 per cent in high-income countries. (South
Africa’s VNR Report, 2019).
In spite of all these measures and initiatives,
still South Africa is struggling to cover the entire
disadvantaged sections of society, inequalities
continues to be high which highlights on
partial coverage of the poor. More concerted
efforts are required by Government to reduce
poverty and inequality and also to speed up
their inclusive growth, policy initiatives and
effective implementation.
The Government of South Africa declared
a national state of disaster, which at present
extended to July 15, 2021. Apart from the
normal lockdown and general restrictions,
South Africa announced its participation in

73
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
the WHO’s Global Vaccine Access facility to
devise its vaccine strategy. India too, in the
early stages of pandemic response focused
on social protection and healthcare. These
include in-kind (food, cooking gas) and cash
transfers to lower-income households, wage
support and employment provision to low-
wage workers, insurance coverage for the
workers in the health care sectors and health
infrastructure.  The Government expanded
the Central Government budget on health
and well-being, including a provision for the
country’s vaccination programme. Further,
custom duties and other taxes on vaccines,
oxygen and oxygen-related equipments were
waived to boost their availability.
Since 1994, to ameliorate the hardships faced
by the vulnerable sections of society, the social
assistance programme has been expanded
significantly to the extent that it covered around
18 million beneficiaries in 2019-2020. Apart
from this, Expanded Public Works Programme
provides employment based income security
to working age people. It aims to promote
skills development and provide income relief
for unemployed people through temporary
employment according to the Government’s
capacity to accommodate all. In contrast to the
social assistance, the social insurance protection
system like the Unemployment Insurance
Fund (UIF) provides conditional short-term
protection against unemployment, illness,
unpaid maternity leave, unpaid leave for the
adoption of a child and death on prior formal
employment, registration and the monthly
contributions to the fund.
Owing to the unprecedented situation during
the pandemic Government of South Africa
initiated many relief programmes for the formal
sector employees registered with the South
African Revenue Service (SARS). Further, the
Department of Employment and Labour made
provisions for additional assistance to workers
who lost their jobs during the COVID-19
related causes through the UIF. A short-term
wage subsidy programme – the Temporary
Employee/Employers Relief Scheme (TERS)
was introduced to help prevent retrenchments
by providing wage support. The South African
Child Support Grant (CSG), a milestone in the
history of social transfer scheme accounted for
71 per cent (or approximately 13 million) of the
total number of grants disbursed in 2019-20,
expanded significantly because of an increase in
age limit of children and subsequently there has
been a huge boost up in the majority of women
recipients of the child grants.
Access to basic services like food, healthcare,
running water, electricity and sanitation during
pandemic became a major challenge in South
Africa worsening the pre-existing structural
problems, therefore, to ameliorate the hardships
faced by the vulnerable groups of sections, the
Department of Water and Sanitation made
adequate provisions of water tankers for poor
in rural areas, apart from that also provided
health and hygiene-related products are some of
the momentary solutions. In addition, to ensure
the quality of water supply in the households,
the National Disaster Water Command Centre
took initiatives to maintain water quality to
some extent by maintaining ownership and by
preventing private supply.
Women, children and elderly people are
mainly vulnerable to food security, particularly
with an added dimension of increasing
malnutrition and under nutrition in non-urban
areas posed the risk of existing co morbidities in
the vulnerable sections of the society to expose
to COVID-19. While considering this, food
and nutrition security features prominently
on the country’s development agenda. Further
National School Nutrition Programme, urban
agriculture and gardening programmes and
integration of nutrition into early childhood
development programmes are some innovative
examples of policy responses.

74
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Way Forward
IBSA can effectively cooperate in various sectors
pertaining to global public goods to address
some of the common challenges faced by these
countries, such as joint vaccinations drive for
the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, medicines,
telemedicine, research on neglected diseases
and biodiversity conservation. In this context,
there is enough potential in India to share the
know-how of Co-WIN application in IBSA
countries and subsequently globally by making
it freely accessible with local customization.
Beyond sharing of technical knowledge
and skill development, IBSA countries should
seek triangular cooperation in terms of the
generation of resources to scale up digital public
goods to cope up with the ongoing crisis of the
COVID-19 pandemic. Given the high Science,
Technology and Innovation (STI) competence,
cooperation for vaccine research, supply chain
management, procurement of raw materials,
genome sequencing and data sharing can be also
accelerated by IBSA, which would successively
empower most of the developing countries in
the fight against the ongoing pandemic.
India along with other IBSA countries has
committed to ensure inclusive and equitable
quality education for all children by 2030.
Education plays a crucial role in enhancing
human capital, for the re-skilling and up-
skilling of people during the post-COVID-19
recovery, achieving sustainable development
and allowing for an inclusive economic growth.
Taking forward, the Sixth IBSA Academic
Forum Declaration 2019, endeavors, as the
Forum noted that IBSA countries have a long
history of premier and prestigious institutions
of higher learning; accordingly there is enough
scope for academic and research collaboration
in a number of new areas that are important
to IBSA. The prospect of fostering student and
Faculty interchange programmes, and dual/
triple degrees at selected IBSA universities
should be further investigated. In addition
to this, special IBSA-focused research joint
technology projects and capacity building
programmes in emergent areas like renewable
energy, climate change, health, agriculture,
vaccines, biotechnology where joint cooperation
can be effectively undertaken by these countries.
The recently concluded seventh IBSA
Academic Forum, 2021 emphasized wide-
ranging issues and identified several important
areas of cooperation among the IBSA countries.
Future of economic partnerships and the need
for strengthening intra-IBSA cooperation on
issues of trade, technology, resilient value
chains and accelerating the digital transition
processes for inclusive social development are
some of the core areas identified in this Forum.
There is a scope to enhance cooperation
in the field of TVET and higher education
through best practices available and exchanges
of knowledge and expertise including in the
field of digital technologies, which are the
prerequisite of achieving high quality and easily
accessible education for its student’s fraternity.
One can say that the process of digitalization
is the core dimension of the 4th Industrial
Revolution arena. It’s quite obvious that the
skills that tend to Industrial Revolution 4 .0
needs are absolutely different from the ones
that have always been in traditional use. In view
of their huge demand, the skilled workforce
in IBSA has to re-skill and accommodate
themselves in the new environment. Further,
it is also imperative for the countries to adopt
new appropriate policies for entrepreneurial
skills for the coming workforce. Role of higher
educational institutes to deliver the right kind of
skills and technology for the future generations
is the need of the hour to harness the benefits
of the 4th Industrial Revolution. It provides
scope for cooperation at governmental and non-
governmental levels in the future of education
and skills as sharing of best practices can combat
cross-domain challenges.
Aimed at deepening the relationship between
the societies in India, Brazil and South Africa,
various people-to-people forums have been

75
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
created to promote the exchange of ideas and
cooperation on a wide range of cross-cutting
socio-economic issues for promoting inclusive
and sustainable development. With the
increasing deployment of digital technologies,
there is an immense scope for strengthening
the Digital Economy in all the respective IBSA
countries. The rapid rise of digital technologies
has been transforming social and economic
activities.
Under the Digital India programme, Unified
Payments Interface (UPI) is a system that
powers multiple bank accounts into a single
mobile application introduced the benefits of
digital payments in every part of the country.
Similarly, the e-RUPI voucher is going to play
an important role in making digital transactions
and DBT more effective in the country. It will
ensure targeted, transparent and leakage-free
delivery to everybody. E-RUPI signifies how
21st century India is moving ahead with the
help of modern technology and connecting
technology with people’s lives. India has
the ability to provide leadership in terms of
innovations and the use of technology in service
delivery. IBSA has emerged as an effective
grouping of like-minded democracies and they
have the ability to explore the potential use of
digital services for cooperation as the use of
digital services for social inclusion of even the
poorest section of the societies can be the game
changer and boost P2P mechanisms.
There is also an urgent need to collaborate
on various Forums of Academia, Think-tanks,
Civil Society, Women, etc. to initiate measure
to tackle common issues. IBSA countries
should strengthen the relationship among
themselves to achieve gender equality and
the empowerment of all women and girls and
the effective implementation of the Beijing
Declaration and Platform for Action (BDFA) and
gender-responsive SDGs and various outcomes
and follow-ups of all the major UN conferences
and summits pertaining to gender equality.
As the achievement of SDGs is not possible
if half of the population of women and girls
continues to be denied their fundamental rights
and opportunities in every field, considering
the vital role played by them as agents of
development in their respective countries. The
recently concluded IBSA Women’s Ministerial
Forum 2021, in their Declaration reaffirmed
their commitment to work together through an
IBSA think-tank on women’s development and
for their empowerment by sharing best practices
and strengthening cooperation for conducting
women-centric research for ensuring gender
equality.
The Women Ministerial Forum 2021
discussed the issues that have contributed in
transforming the lives of women. Mentioned
are the initiatives, policies, and best practises
that countries have implemented for a gender-
inclusive economy in order to transform and
eliminate gender-based discrimination and
violence against women. As gender-based
violence has been a significant challenge for all
the three IBSA countries during the pandemic.
This in turn would help in understanding
each member country’s systems, policies and
programmes for women empowerment. Based
on the understanding, they would be able
to create a strategic roadmap to promote the
gender equality agenda to achieve the SDGs.
There was also an emphasis on the need to raise
meaningful voice in various multilateral fora to
highlight the development priorities of the IBSA
member countries and the forum stressed on
presenting gender equality from an economic
perspective.
Given the diverse background, IBSA shares
many remarkable similarities and faces complex
challenges in terms of poverty, access to health
care, traditional medicines, quality education,
entrepreneurship, inequality, gender equality,
unemployment and under employment,
malnutrition, and exclusion of the majority
from the benefits of social and economic
development. Gradually, all the IBSA member
countries are striving hard and initiating

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
76
various similar innovative policy measures
in tackling the issues of social and economic
development along with their commitment to
achieve SDGs by 2030.
References
Bolsa Familia in Brazil, Centre for Public
Impact, September 2, 2019. https://www.
centreforpublicimpact.org/case-study/bolsa-
familia-in-brazil.
Department of Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation,
Republic of South Africa,  GTAC, National
Research Foundation & NDP 2030,  South
Africa Covid-19 Country Report (2021),  Impact
on Vulnerable Groups - Chapter 5.3 (Draft
19/5/2021).
Donida, Bruna, Cristiano Andre da Costa, and Juliana
Nichterwitz Scherer, 2021. Making the COVID-19
Pandemic a Driver for Digital Health: Brazilian
Strategies. JMIR Public Health and Surveillance,
June 7(6):e28643.
Government of India,  Economic Survey, (Various
Issues), Ministry of Finance. https://www.
ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8244723/
and https://www.gov.za/about-sa/social-
development.
Deepening Cooperation in IBSA Perspectives from
key sectors, http://www.ris.org.in/deepening-
cooperation-ibsa-perspectives-key-sectors.
IMF, Policy responses to COVID – 19, See, https://
www.imf.org/en/Topics/imf-and-COVID-19/
Policy-Responses-to-COVID-19#S
Leveraging the Power of JAM: Jan Dhan, Adhar and
Mobile https://www.pmindia.gov.in/en/
government_tr_rec/leveraging-the-power-of-
jam-jan-dhan-aadhar-and-mobile/.
Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public
Distribution (2021), 56.53 per cent of food grains
have been lifted in the country under PMGKAY
Phase IV, 22 Sept, 2021. https://pib.gov.in/
PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=1756998
NITI Aayog, 2020. India VNR 2020 - Decade of Action:
Taking SDGS from Local to Global. Government
of India.
PIB, Government of India, 26 March 2022.
PIB, Ministry of Finance, (2020). Prime Minister Garib
Kalyan Package-Progress so far. 20 June 2020.
https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.
aspx?PRID=1713824
Prime Minister India launches countrywide Ayushman
Bharat Digital Mission, 27 September 2021, See,
https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.
aspx?PRID=1758511
RIS, 2016. Trinity for Development, Democracy and
Sustainability. RIS.
Social Inclusion and Policy Making in South Africa:
A Conceptual Overview. The Journal of the Helen
Suzman Foundation | Issue 73 | August 2014
https://hsf.org.za/publications/focus/focus-
73-social-inclusion/mcardo_73.pdf
South Africa’s Voluntary National Review (VNR)
Report 2019 – Empowering People and Ensuring
Inclusiveness and Equality.
UNDP. 2020, Human Development Report, The
Next Frontier- Human Development and
Anthropocene, UNDP.
United Nations, Department of Economic
and Social Affairs-Poverty https://
www.un.org/development/desa/
socialperspectiveondevelopment/issues/social-
integration.html
UNOSSC, 2020. Good Practices in South-South
and Triangular Cooperation for Sustainable
Development - Volume 3, September. See,
https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-content/
uploads/2020/09/Good-Practices-in-SSTC-for-
Sustainable-Development-Vol.-3-2020-Digital-
Light-FINAL.pdf
Voluntary National Review on the Sustainable
Development Goals, Brazil 2017. https://
sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/
documents/15806Brazil_English.pdf
World Bank Approves Loan Supporting the Expansion
of the Bolsa Famila Program. World Bank, October
29, 2020. Press Release: https://www.worldbank.
org/en/news/press-release/2020/10/29/world-
bank-approves-loan-supporting-expansion-of-
bolsa-familia-program.

77
Introduction
T
he emergence of the new international
economic order in the post-WW-II years
saw a steady increase in the developmental
partnerships between developing countries
under the rubric of South-South cooperation.
Borne by the need to share capacities, experience
and knowledge amongst developing countries
for fostering development, the Southern
Solidarity among developing countries, the
rise of Southern Solidarity saw several notable
initiatives including the adoption of the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action (BAPA) on September
18, 1978, which for the first time, established
the framework and schemes of collaboration
among least developed countries of the global
south (United Nations, 2019). The India, Brazil,
and South Africa (IBSA) Trust Fund, a facility
for hunger and poverty alleviation, is one such
model of south-south cooperation that seeks
to leverage the complementarities among the
three emerging economies of the global south
to advance development cooperation in various
developing and least-developing countries of
Global South.
1 Since its inception in 2004, the
IBSA Trust fund has been a key pillar of the
tripartite dialogue forum of IBSA countries.
The seventeen-year long journey of the fund
has been remarkable in terms of providing
a much-needed rationale and vision for the
IBSA partnership and making an impactful
contribution to fulfilling development priorities
in various partnering countries. Over time,
the fund (hereafter) has come to represent a
model of cooperation that truly reinforces
the ‘development’ narrative and to advance
multilateral solutions for achieving SDGs.
The core focus of the fund i.e. on facilitating
poverty and hunger alleviation has been
vital given the ever-widening economic gap
between developed and developing countries.
The weak indicators of development in many
least developed countries and their incessant
struggle to meet the basic developmental needs
necessitate that the international efforts must be
effectively leveraged towards building socio-
economic capacities and to foster economic
transformation in these societies. The need
IBSA Fund: Reflections
and New Vision6

78
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
to propel them into the global economic
mainstream is critical for building an equitable
international order and to address their limited
presence in global trade networks. The ongoing
COVID-19 pandemic, however, has once again
accentuated the trend of global inequity and
put immense pressure on healthcare services
across the globe. Amidst the growing trust
deficit between the developed and developing
bloc, the assistance provided by the IBSA Fund
towards the delivery of healthcare capacity
augmentation, and building clinics, hospitals,
etc. have been immensely valuable.
The demand-driven nature of the projects
under the IBSA Fund is crucial which ensures
much-needed flexibility in selecting projects
that can be replicated and scaled up efficiently
within the given context.
2 Over time, the
development cooperation paradigm has come
to strongly recognize the significance of local
specificities, contextual factors, and ecosystem
considerations in devising community and
region-level projects . In recognition of the
‘contextual’ dynamics in the localization of
development and SDGs, the projects supported
under IBSA Fund have been relatively successful
in delivering solutions according to the local
priorities and traditions of partner countries
(UNOSSC, 2021a). At the same time, there is
much scope to fully optimise the potential of the
IBSA Trust Fund and to address issues relating
to the efficient delivery of the projects.
The IBSA Fund’s journey over the past
seventeen years offers an important opportunity
to reflect on its evolution and to present a
critical appraisal of its achievements and issues
for future management. In this chapter, we
critically examine the implementation of the
IBSA Fund, assess its key contributions, and
chart out a new vision for its future. The chapter
is broadly divided into four parts. In the second
section, we reflect on the IBSA Fund’s activities
since its operationalisation and  delineate its
modalities and governance structure. In the
third section, we assess the contribution of IBSA
Fund activities from the lens of SDGs and assess
the local value addition from various projects.
Drawing upon this discussion, the fourth
section outlines the emergent priorities for the
IBSA Fund in the light of the post-COVID phase
of recovery and lay out some of the ideas for
more effective and efficient governance of the
IBSA Fund.
Reinforcing the Southern ‘Development’
Narrative
Currently, at seventeen, the IBSA Fund
has successfully defined the developmental
narrative which stands for multilateralism and
inclusive growth. Following its announcement
at the 58
th Session of the UN General Assembly
in September 2003, the IBSA Fund was
formally established with the United Nation’s
Development Programme (UNDP) in 2004.
With shared historical memories of anti-colonial
struggles and commitment to democratic ideals
of development, the IBSA trilateral shares the
concerns of the developing world and embodies
the spirit of equality and solidarity in forging
‘development partnerships’ under the IBSA
Fund with fellow developing countries. Since
the success of its first project in Guinea-Bissau
on agriculture and livestock development, the
IBSA Fund has come to build a repertoire of
projects attempting to provide solutions to
complex problems in a frugal yet sustainable
and efficient manner. In turn, the fund has also
enabled the transfer of vital policy knowledge,
learnings, and experiences of IBSA members
to fight the problems of hunger and poverty to
some of the partnering LDCs (RIS, 2016).
Over the years, the fund has made remarkable
progress on advancing Southern solutions to
the needs of developing countries while also
enabling the IBSA countries to streamline and
consolidate their development cooperation
efforts in the Global South. In this sense,
the fund has been a valuable addition to the
South-South paradigm that is continuing to
grow for the past five decades (Vieira, 2013).

79
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Administered in partnership with the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), a
UN body responsible for driving sustainable
development agenda, the IBSA Fund has so
far drawn upon the advisory, consultancy,
and project management expertise of the
UN system. The UN Office for South-South
Cooperation (UNOSSC), a specialised entity
within the UNDP has been entrusted with
the management of the fund and acts as its
official secretariat. The IBSA countries annually
contribute about US$ 1 million towards the
fund amounting to about three million US
dollars every year and the highly dynamic and
engaged board of directors from three countries
is entrusted with the Fund’s  overarching
governance.
Table 1: Key Highlights of the IBSA Fund
Total projects
35 (23 completed,
8 ongoing, 4 under
preparation for
implementation)
Partnerships
31 South-South led
partnerships for innovative
solutions
Countries
20 partner countries
covered, most of the least
developed
Development
Focus All 17 SDGs advanced
Leadership 3 Southern leaders in
South-South cooperation
Source: UNOSSC, 2021
Table 2: Total Revenue and Delivery,
2004–2020
Revenue $43.61 million
Allocation $39.43 million
Delivery $32.94 million
Source: UNOSSC, 2021
Although the IBSA Fund’s core idea is to
identify smaller  projects focused on hunger
and poverty alleviation, the fund’s activities
have over time come to encompass all the 17
SDGs. The projects approved under the fund
fall under four broad areas namely, agriculture,
employment, health, and water. The progress in
these areas can significantly aid the elimination
of hunger, generate employment, and achieve
progress on SDGs. Moreover, its adherence
to foundational principles of local ownership,
non-conditionality, and non-interference as
enshrined in the framework of South-South
Cooperation have helped to build effective
and lasting development partnerships. The
demand-driven pathway of IBSA Fund projects
has worked well over the years as project
proposals are conceived by partner countries
according to their perceived needs and priorities
rather than being advocated by the IBSA Fund
secretariat or member states. The national
ownership thus not only helps to address any
perceived bottlenecks in the implementation of
the projects but also ensures that projects are
implemented efficiently and contributes to the
long-term building of capacities.
As opposed to practices of many international
donor agencies, the IBSA Fund projects has
stood in sharp contrast to many traditional
development donors which often impose
onerous conditions on recipient countries.
This way, the projects implemented under the
IBSA Fund have enabled wider adaptation
and scaling-up through multi-stakeholder
partnerships and collaborations. This is further
consolidated through a strong emphasis on
wider stakeholder engagement via dialogue,
and partnership with local institutions, civil
society, and partnering institutions, etc. The
UNOSSC’s active focus and mandate in this
domain have ensured that IBSA projects better
understand and deliver the developmental
needs of partner countries and offer relevant
solutions. Furthermore, the consensus and
evidence-based governance of the IBSA Fund

80
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
has helped to build in required transparency
and due diligence in the execution of projects.
The involvement of UN Resident coordinators
too has been instrumental towards identifying
qualified agencies and to implement the projects
effectively.
Delivering ‘Public Goods’ & Development
The IBSA Fund’s core focus on hunger and
poverty alleviation was conceived in the wake
of the international community’s pledge, at
the turn of a new century, to work towards
attaining the millennium development goals
(MDGs) including the eradication of extreme
poverty and hunger, achieving universal
education, promoting gender equality, reducing
child mortality, combating communicable
diseases, etc. Over the past decade and a
half, IBSA Fund has supported a total of 35
development projects in 31 countries at the
allocation of $39.43 million (UNOSSC, 2021b).
Out of 35 projects, IBSA Fund has successfully
completed 23 projects as of 2020 and 8 projects
are currently underway while 4 projects are
being prepared for implementation in various
developing, least developed countries and
small island developing states (Ibid). The
central focus on these small or medium-size
countries is significant given the socio-economic
distress prevalent in these countries and IBSA‘s
commitment to building an inclusive global
order in which no country is ‘left behind’.
In this regard, the IBSA Fund’s assistance is
spread over diverse sectors. The portfolio of
IBSA Funded projects includes areas such as
agriculture, healthcare, education, human
development, climate change, technology,
governance and administration, among others.
In this section, we present a thematic overview
of the impact of projects delivered under the
IBSA Fund in various partner countries and
their contribution in advancing various national
priorities including the SDGs.
Poverty and Hunger Alleviation
The IBSA Fund’s modest yet impactful efforts
towards delivering improved livelihoods
especially in countries suffering from chronic
persistence of poverty and hunger cannot be
overstated. A large portion of the IBSA Fund is
traditionally devoted to supporting agriculture
projects given its strong interlinkages with other
indicators of development including poverty,
nutrition, and social well-being. In countries like
Figure 1: Budget Allocations by Region, 2004–2020
Source: IBSA Fund Annual Report 2020

81
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Figure	2:	Budget	Allocations,	by	Development	Classification	of	the
Countries, 2004–2019
Figure 3: By Thematic Area
Source: IBSA Fund Annual Report 2020
Source: IBSA Fund Annual Report 2020

82
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Comoros and Timor-Leste, the IBSA Funded
projects on enhanced seed production have
helped over 4000 farmers while in Vietnam over
1100 farmers were trained at a pilot school farm
in conservation agriculture projects leading
to enhanced yield and sustainability of the
crop production (UNOSSC, 2014). Improved
nutrition being a key to fighting hunger and
poverty, the IBSA Fund has implemented
projects related to crop diversification in
African partner countries. Furthermore, the
transfer of improved livestock breeds, animal
vaccination, and related training activities
too has led to enhancing the diets of over
13100 women and farmers in the countries of
Guinea-Bissau and Saint Lucia. The agriculture
projects additionally devoted efforts to women
empowerment and their training and capacity
building. A collaborative project with Guinea-
Bissau’s Ministry of Agriculture has specially
trained women in sustainable rice cultivation
along with grafting and conservation techniques
(UNOSSC, 2011a). In Zambia too, the ongoing
project trained over 2,000 farmers in water
management, pest-control, and related activities
significantly improved the yield of soyabeans.
The reported agriculture and productivity
benefits for the local population and women
increased the economic well-being of the local
population and, in turn, contributed to poverty
reduction efforts. As a consequence, the IBSA
Fund has laid a strong emphasis on enhancing
agro-productivity towards reducing hunger and
extreme poverty. In recent times, the growing
climatic variations are posing a serious challenge
for agriculture sustainability, especially for
small landholders. The consequent need to
employ sustainable agriculture techniques and
sensitive management of watershed resources
including forests and rivers has demanded
greater policy attention. Under the IBSA Fund, a
unique community-level project was supported
in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic for
community-driven management of forests and
rivers alongside the use of efficient irrigated
agriculture techniques (UNOSSC, 2011b).
Besides fostering community participation,
the initiative has also led to building technical
and governance capacities in the agro-forest-
fisheries sectors of these countries. The cross-
sectoral focus of this project has thus proved
to be of immense value to build synergies
and generate positive externalities for both
governance and the environment.
Good Health & Well-Being & Reduced
inequalities
The IBSA Fund has traditionally prioritised the
third UN SDG, namely ‘good health and well-
being, which is crucial for ensuring healthier
and sustainable life on the planet. Accounting
to about 27 percent of IBSA’s total budget, the
priority on healthcare has been vital especially
in the light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic
which has underlined the need for building
resilient healthcare systems. Some of the
most effective healthcare projects under the
IBSA Fund include the building a centre for
HIV/AIDS prevention in Burundi (UNOSSC,
2015). The three-storey health centre built and
equipped with advance medical equipment
and IT support is providing HIV/AIDS
prevention, testing and treatment and other
reproductive health-care services that benefits
estimated 15,000 patients annually. In Cabo-
Varde, the rehabilitation and renovation of
two health-care centres in the remote island of
São Nicolau are providing healthcare access to
its 450 inhabitants including women, children,
pregnant women and elderly people (UNOSSC,
2016). Similarly, in Palestine, the rehabilitation
of the physical infrastructure and upgraded
medical capacities of the nine-storey Cultural
and Hospital Centre for the Palestinian Red
Crescent Society (PRCS) has improved access
to health-care services, while the reconstruction
of Atta Habib Medical Centre in the eastern
Gaza City provides health-care services to
around 30,000 patients annually. In Vietnam,
the training of over 300 health professionals
in remote villages in digital resources has
improved the last-mile delivery of medical

83
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
services and the successful scaling-up of this
facility in other parts of the country was helpful
in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic (UNOSSC,
2018). Towards fulfiling the unmet needs of
the children with developmental disabilities,
a unique project in Cambodia has provided
about 2,000 children the special education and
physiotherapy and trained six physicians and
eleven paramedics. Similarly, a project in the
Nablus in the West Bank of Palestine has set
up a facility that treats people with mental
and cognitive disabilities (UNOSSC, 2018).
The project is imparting skills among local
people and enabling them to deal with mental
health issues such as stress and depression. In
supporting the healthcare projects, the IBSA
Fund has thus rightly expended its resources
towards providing access and fostering
inclusion while also making a vital contribution
in the domain of disability policies and
strategies. This way, the future IBSA healthcare
projects could make a vital contribution by
breaking the vicious cycle of extreme poverty
and poor indicators of public health.
Gender Equality & Education
Under the gender equality and education, the
IBSA Fund has mainly focussed on women
education and empowerment. Projects in this
domain have proved to be immensely valuable
in advancing both the national development
priorities and SDG 4&5. A project in Guinea-
Bissau has trained more than one thousand
adults mostly women to make them functionally
literate. A somewhat similar project in Fiji saw
as many as 1500 women being empowered to
produce efficient cook stoves that contributed
to healthier livelihoods and environmental
protection. The ongoing work to scale-up
the rocket stove project has contributed to
improving the livelihoods and health of women
in rural areas of Fiji and to rein in growing
deforestation through reduced demand for
firewood.
3 The focus on gender equality led
the IBSA Fund to support a project on the
elimination of child marriages in Malawi and
Zambia to build a more equal society. As part
of its commitment to ending child marriages,
the project aims to reposition the female victims
of child marriages and provide scholarships to
re-enter the schools.
4 The regional spillovers
of the movement against child marriages are
significant and, critical to mitigate the challenge
of unsafe motherhood, poor nutrition, maternal
mortality, etc.
Clean Water, Sanitation, and Energy
IBSA Fund has, inter-alia, supported the
construction of a plant for the desalination of sea-
water and its transportation to the communities
that lessened the risks associated with the intake
of poor-quality water. The project has increased
the year-round supply of safe drinking water
for about 12,000 inhabitants of Sao Nicolau
Island. Similarly, a clean energy project in 20
villages of Guinea-Bissau provided local people
with access to solar energy and scaled-up the
solar energy component of a previous IBSA
Fund project. The project benefitted over 20,000
community members by electrifying homes,
schools, community centres, streetlights, and
water pumps with solar power.
5 The access to
affordable and clean energy makes this project
vital to advancing SDG7 and making clean
energy a leading source of energy consumption.
In Bolivia too, an ongoing project involving
the construction of water-wells has addressed
the challenge of water access for thirty-eight
rancher and farming communities to a large
extent. The access to clean water for daily use,
and to raise cattle herds in urban and rural
communities is reported to have a significant
impact on improving livelihoods through
enhanced livestock production, and food
security.
6 Moreover the project has contributed
to improving the resilience of local communities,
especially against droughts, which have become
a recurring phenomenon in recent times.
Decent Work & Economic Growth
Under IBSA Fund work, over 8,100 young
people (58 percent female) from 25 provinces

84
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
have improved their employability through
volunteering while in Haiti around 440
youths with vocations training were able to
secure job. In Cambodia, an ongoing project
on development of transferrable skills and
preparing the youth of all genders for social
entrepreneurship has benefitted over 4,000
youth including a large number of women in the
country. With necessary skills, knowledge about
entrepreneurial ecosystem, and networking,
the project has enhanced the prospects of the
decent work opportunities and creating socially
responsible entrepreneurs. In Kiribati, an
inclusive, sustainable, economic development
project helped to develop a National Coconut-
sector Development Strategy to improve the
livelihoods of smallholders. In Sudan, the
project created employment opportunities by
supporting the placement of youth workers
in enterprises in road maintenance, waste
management, and auto-mechanical, electrical,
or other vocational activities.
7
Industry and infrastructure & Sustainable
Cities
The industry development efforts under IBSA
Fund have mostly focussed on agro-and-
process industries. In Zambia, the IBSA Fund
project has supported the creation of soyabean
processing plant with a capacity of 20-50 tons
per day to process raw soya beans into oil
and by-products that include soya cake. The
improvement of soyabean value-chain is seen
as critical in Zambia’s efforts to achieve poverty
reduction and food security in rural areas. In
Sierra Leone, a project for creating national
infrastructure for financial inclusion has led to
the creation of pilot digital financial-service for
MSMEs and local people. The project has led to
creation of capability in financial technology
sector and strengthened institutional set-up for
regulation of digital financial services. With the
informal sector contributing to about 53 percent
of Sierra Leone’s GDP, the Fin-tech investment
has led to the development of government
and private-led digital economy services.
The project also saw useful regional learning
network and cooperation between the Bank of
Sierra Leone and Kenya’s national bank which
has successfully scaled-up digital technology
services.
8
Responsible Consumption, Production
and Climate Action
The projects in this vertical have provided
over 350000 residents with access to better
solid waste infrastructure in Guyana. IBSA
has strengthened climate adaptation and
protection of the environment having enabled
anti-erosion measures by training 300 farmers
in watershed management and rehabilitation
of 3000 hectares of lowlands in Guinea-Bissau.
In Vietnam, the project has contributed to
enhancing agricultural yields and strengthened
rice cultivation through use of new rice-seed
varieties and organic fertilizers substituting
chemical fertilizers. In Timor-Leste, the
project promoted the adoption of sustainable
production techniques and the intensification
and diversification of smallholder farming
and fishing systems. Over 1,600 smallholder
farmers and fisherfolk adopted conservation
agriculture, permaculture, and sustainable co-
fisheries management techniques.
9
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
A project in Sierra Leone focussed on building
the capacities of the presidential cabinet and
5 percent of the ministerial staff was trained
on good governance practices in Sierra Leone
and violence was reduced with reclassification
from a security red zone to a yellow zone
to a waste management activity in Haiti. It
contributed to strengthening the capacity of its
key State institutions which will revamp the
macroeconomic policies for better governance.
3.8 per cent for governance and security. In
Grenada, a unique project is focussed on
building strong institutional capacity in health
sector through development of establishing
a secretariat for National health insurance
scheme and capacity building for its human

85
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Table 3: Development Impact of the IBSA Fund across the World
Country Development Impact
Bolivia
(Plurinational State
of)
• 38 indigenous communities increased their access to water for human
consumption, livestock and irrigation
Burundi • 39,000 yearly reproductive- health consultations enabled
Cabo Verde
• 12,000 residents provided with access to safe drinking water
• 450 people from remote communities improved their access to
healthcare services
Cambodia
• Over 8,100 Young People (58 percent female) from 25 provinces increased
their skills in community-based entrepreneurship development
• 2,000 children with special needs gained improved access to healthcare
services
Comoros • 1,140 farmers enhanced the sustainability and productivity of their
agricultural activities
Fiji • 1,530 Women increased skills as they fabricated and distributed 1,580
energy-efficient rocket stoves to communities (Ongoing Project)
Grenada • National health insurance programme established to provide universal
health coverage
Guinea-Bissau • 6,000 animals and poultry were vaccinated and treated
• 20,000 community members benefited from solar energy
Guyana • 350,000 residents gained access to better solid-waste- management
infrastructure and practices
Haiti • 400 livelihoods supported in waste-management activities
• 440 youths trained in vocational activities secured jobs
Kiribati
• National Coconut-sector Development Strategy in place to improve
livelihoods of smallholder coconut farmers
• Established virgin coconut oil processing plant benefiting farmers on a
remote outer island (Ongoing Project)
Lao People’s
Democratic Republic • 630 hectors of agricultural land have regular irrigation facility
Saint Lucia • 150 sheep and goat farmers improved their livelihoods while enhancing
local diets
Sierra Leone
• The staff of the Presidential Cabinet and ministries increased knowledge
and capacity to deliver public services
• Piloting of digital loans (emergency COVID-19 credit product) reached
15,000 customers (Ongoing Project)
• Bank of Sierra Leone released Know Your-Client (KYC) guidelines to
deepen financial inclusion by simplifying the procedure for opening a
bank account (Ongoing Project)
State of Palestine
• 6,600 youths gained access to sports facilities built and equipped by the
project
• 2 hospitals and a medical centre built or refurbished
• 10,000 individuals with disabilities use the service centre annually
• 30,000 patients from Gaza Strip receive continuous health-care services
Table 3 continued...

86
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
resources. As part of reforming the health sector
through legislative and other changes and
strengthen Southern leaning exchanges, over
600 members of NHI gained vital knowledge
about health insurance systems towards
providing affordable and accessible healthcare
for vulnerable and marginalized populations
in Greneda.
10
Tourism
Lastly, in view of the vast untapped potential
of the least-developed countries in promoting
Tourism, the IBSA Fund is also supporting
the development of Tourism sector including
the development of necessary infrastructure
and services that will contribute to generating
employment and achieve poverty reduction.
Tourism being an important source of revenue
in many counties, proposals related to this sector
need to be given strong emphasis under IBSA
Fund. Such projects can among other contribute
to capacity building, promoting regional and
international tourism and contribute to growth
and development in many LDCs.
Conclusion
Towards a New Vision for IBSA Fund
The contributions of the IBSA Fund towards
advancing various SDGs, as delineated above,
show reasonable success in terms of aiding the
fellow developing countries in fulfilling their
national priorities. The fund has undoubtedly
proven its value in advancing SDGs and
leveraging the synergies among the three
emerging economies towards building capacities,
institutions, and improving livelihoods in
partner countries. Notwithstanding the modest
annual contribution of US$3 million, the fund
represents a significant achievement for the
tripartite conclave. The IBSA Fund’s focus
on enhancing resilience against a host of
societal and environmental challenges is also
of great essence. In recent times, the growing
uncertainty surrounding climate change, the
ongoing pandemic, and the fragility of the
global value chains are having disproportionate
impacts on many Southern countries. The
post-COVID context of economic recovery,
however, is particularly challenging given that
the pandemic has resulted in the reversal of
progress on key issues like poverty reduction
where IBSA Fund has made a concerted effort.
Amidst the global socio-economic setback
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, there
is a strong need to foster inclusive recovery
and to help the LDCs overcome the adverse
effects of pandemic including rising COVID
cases, mortality, unemployment and economic
insecurity. The growing inwardness embraced
by rich countries during the COVID-19 outbreak
has yet again underlined the need for reinforcing
the South-South and triangular cooperation to
address the rising socio-economic inequities
induced by the pandemic. Upholding the
spirit of solidarity and cooperation, the IBSA
countries including India has been at the
Sudan • 3,000 underprivileged youths increased their skills to secure
employment
Timor-Leste • 1,600 smallholder farmers adopted new and resilient agricultural
techniques
Viet Nam
• 12 percent increase in rice productivity at project sites, with a significant
reduction in production costs
• eLearning platform, successful in reaching healthcare workers in
remote-site medical settings, is now being used to train frontline
workers for COVID-19
Zambia • 858 Farmers supported soyabean production with technical assistance
and agricultural inputs
Source: IBSA Fund Annual Report 2020
Table 3 continued...

87
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
forefront of providing aid, and assistance to
their Southern partners, who lack adequate
response capacities to face situations like the
pandemic. In the light of such immediate
priorities, the IBSA Fund can make targeted
interventions towards overcoming the COVID-
19-related requirements such as healthcare
goods and services. This is because restarting
the economy would require an effective
‘COVID-19 exit strategy’ which would not be
possible without international cooperation and
partnerships (Woods and Batniji, 2020).
Furthermore, the outcome documents
of the BAPA+40 Conference held in 2019
offers a valuable guidance for strengthening
southern and triangular cooperation initiatives
for achieving SDGs in the Global South.
Accordingly, the IBSA Fund can undertake
wider outreach to countries that are worst-
affected by the pandemic and work on
innovative resource mobilisation strategies
which would not only lend greater traction to
the South-South and triangular partnerships but
also strengthen their resilience against similar
crises in the future. An effective component of
this new vision is to adopt innovative financing
models for the IBSA Fund. While the demand-
driven programmes under the IBSA Fund are
likely to continue in the future, it is imperative
that fund managers put a strong emphasis on
enhancing the quality of results across project
portfolios and improving the visibility of the
development impact of these projects across
the SDGs. This would also, among other things,
involve building linkages and collaboration
with research institutions and think-tanks to
promote evidence-based research on IBSA Fund
activities.
Expertise for SDGs & Dual Project
Ownerships
 In recent times, a spate of disruptions in the
international systems ranging from systemic
financial crises to the ongoing COVID-19
pandemic has tested the resilience of countries
around the world. Faced with health and
climate challenges, the imperative to foster
localised development and sustainability
has assumed immense significance. Amidst
such difficult times, the IBSA Fund needs to
consider the local development objectives and
establish engagement with local communities
and civil society members. The bottom-up
approach would, however, require building
expertise to facilitate local level progress, while
ensuring the outcomes to be safe, resilient
and sustainable. The fund’s own experiences
and insights in several key sectors would also
prove beneficial to enhance the knowledge
base of less-developed nations and enable their
institutions to promote and implement SDGs.
The role of national development agencies
of three IBSA countries assumes immense
significance in this regard.
For instance, the development agencies of
IBSA countries such as the Brazilian Cooperation
Agency (ABC), Brazil, Development Partnership
Administration (DPA), India and South
African Development Partnership Agency
(SADPA) can play a crucial role in jointly
managing the Fund and its projects. One way
the tripartite development agency model
could be envisaged is through entering into
collaborations with the UN agencies while
retaining its independence to deliver localised
solutions within SDG frameworks (RIS, 2016).
A meaningful collaboration with external
development agencies, private sectors and other
donors is vital to provide more effective and
coordinated support to the partner countries.
Right from working on the conception of the
projects to its implementation and handover,
the trilateral special purpose vehicle could
make the fund more effective in the recipient
countries.
Such collaboration would be important
to ensure that required goods and services
can also be procured from IBSA countries,
wherever necessary, rather than being sourced
from international markets and to ensure
mutual gain in true spirit. This would make
the projects less vulnerable to the supply chain

88
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
disruptions and enhance the mutual gains
from cooperation. Thus, the dual ownership of
the projects - IBSA and partner countries – can
also be more impactful and bring additional
value addition for the Fund and its activities.
Additionally, the learning experience for
national agencies and local governments can
be a driving factor for creating capacities and
increasing investments for least developed
countries. The dual ownership model can also
have advantages bringing in required efficiency
in implementation, participation from host
governments, and promote solutions that are
frugal yet innovative. Most importantly, the
model would resonate the values of South-south
cooperation premised on principles of equality,
respect and benefits for all.
Casting a Wider Resource Net
Despite the modest annual contribution of
about three million US dollars, the IBSA
Fund has become a widely acclaimed model
of partnership to meet the development
priorities of partner countries. Given its tangible
contributions and the acknowledgement of its
work from recipient countries, there is a strong
case for casting a wider resource net to increase
the size of the fund. First, given the success
of the Fund’s activities, it is only propitious
that IBSA members consider increasing their
annual contributions to the Fund. Second,
the UNOSSC’s strategic guidance on resource
mobilization strategies and innovative financing
mechanisms can be of essence for the IBSA
Fund. Such expansion would not only make
a bigger impact on promoting SDGs but
also convey a strong sense of responsibility
to the comity of nations about its collective
responsibility to build an international system
that promotes values of access, equity and
inclusion (AEI) (RIS, 2015). It has already
been recommended that the IBSA Fund builds
synergies with other instruments like the
African Union Development Agency-NEPAD
(New Partnership for Africa’s Development
)
which is working towards similar goals
and objectives (RIS, 2016). The triangular
cooperation also offers another area that IBSA
members can explore to achieve SDGs. Such
working alliances would allow the IBSA Fund
to gain wider visibility and recognition for a
wide repertoire of activities around the world.
The cross-agency learning and exchanges
would also enable better spending of IBSA
resources and ensure better payoffs.
Learning, Monitoring and Evaluation
The IBSA Fund’s focus on a broad range of
objectives across a large number of countries
makes it imperative to undertake thorough
monitoring and evaluation, evidence collection
and learning at various stages of project
conception, and implementation. At the stage
of project conception, it would be worthwhile
to understand the political economy and
sectoral context of the development of the host
country along with an overview of the regional
security situation. Projects conceived with
such broad understanding naturally stands
to guarantee better execution and solutions.
Second, it is critical to codify learning and
inform operational decisions regarding the
projects. Accordingly, the IBSA Fund can
evolve a framework for learning from evidence
available and recommendations. A robust
sectoral diagnosis is helpful towards making
right financing decisions and adopting a well-
informed implementation strategy. Along with
codifying evidence and learning, the IBSA
Fund activities must be also guided by existing
lessons and experiences from development
cooperation. The emphasis on local-specifics
and traditional knowledge has already been
recognised in the development cooperation
literature. It is thus essential that IBSA Fund
projects entail effective monitoring, evaluation
and learning. It is also important that lessons
learnt from the individual project are shared
across other trust funds and their implementing
bodies. This could prove to be a useful body of
knowledge critical to localised development
and various targets under the SDGs.

89
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
 Endnote
1 See, IBSA Forum web. Retrieved from https://
www.ibsa-trilateral.org/ibsa_fund.html and
“India, Brazil and South Africa (IBSA) Facility”
at United Nations Office on South-South
Cooperation. Retrieved from https://www.
unsouthsouth.org/partner-with-us/ibsa/.
2 See, “About IBSA Trust Fund”, United Nations
Office for South-South Cooperation. Retrieved from
https://www.unsouthsouth.org/partner-with-
us/ibsa/.
3 IBSA Fund Report 2019, Empowering Rural
Women: Scaling Up the Rocket Stove Project,
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf
4 Ibid, see Eliminating Child Marriages in Malawi and
Zambia.
5 See, IBSA Fund Report 2019, “CABO VERDE
- Delivering Safe Drinking Water & GUINEA-
BISSAU - Rural Electrification through Solar-
energy Systems”. Retrieved from https://
www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-content/
uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
6  Ibid, See, Bolivia - Increased Access to Water,
Improved Livestock Production and Post-drought
Food Security.
7 IBSA Fund Report 2019, “Cambodia -
Empowering Children and Adolescents with
Special Needs”; “KIRIBATI Inclusive Sustainable
Economic Development through Coconut-
sector Development”, and “SUDAN Creation
of Job Opportunities for Youth in Sudan
through Labour-intensive Work Opportunities”.
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf.
8 IBSA Fund Report 2019, “Leveraging Zambia’s
Agro-industry Potential in Rural Areas through
Enhanced Soya Bean Production and Processing”;
and “SIERRA LEONE Digital Financial Services”,
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf.
9 See, IBSA Fund Report 2019, Guyana - Solid Waste
Management Improvement Project; Guinea-
Bissau Support for Lowland Rehabilitation and for
Agricultural; Vietnam - Establishment of a Rice-
seed Production Hub in Hoa Tien; and TIMOR-
LESTE Conservation Agriculture, Permaculture
and Sustainable Fisheries Management. Retrieved
from https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
10 IBSA Fund Report 2019, “SIERRA LEONE -
Leadership Development and Capacity-building
for Human Development and Poverty Reduction;
HAITI Collection of Solid Waste as a Tool to Reduce
Violence (Phases l and ll); and Grenada - National
Health Insurance Scheme Support Project”.
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf.
References
RIS. 2015. “Access, Equity and Inclusion: Ethical
Norms and S& T Policy Outcomes”. Research
and Information Systems for Developing Countries.
No.70. May 2015. Retrieved from https://www.
ris.org.in/sites/default/files/RIS%20Policy%20
Brief-70_0.pdf.
RIS. 2016. “Trinity for Development, Democracy and
Sustainability”, Research & Information System
for Developing Countries. Retrieved from http://
www.ris.org.in/trinity-development-democracy-
and-sustainability.
United Nations. 2019. “What is ‘South-South
cooperation’ and why does it matter?”, The United
Nations, 20 March 2019, Retrieved from https://
www.un.org/development/desa/en/news/
intergovernmental-coordination/south-south-
cooperation-2019.html.
UNOSSC. 2011a. IBSA Fund Report 2011. Retrieved
from https://drive.google.com/file/d/19m6E-
DduMYH4Y0IyA-0ysvLG_Bd1deLh/view.
UNOSSC. 2011b. IBSA Fund Report 2011 - New Projects
- Lao PDR: Support to Integrated Irrigated
Agriculture in Two Districts in Bolikhamxay.
Retrieved from https://drive.google.com/file/
d/19m6E-DduMYH4Y0IyA-0ysvLG_Bd1deLh/
view.
UNOSSC. 2014. IBSA Fund Report 2014. Retrieved from
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1i7jXCsJuw9ix
d5wBiYxc4RBElIkjpZSi/view.
UNOSSC. 2015. IBSA Fund Report 2015 -
Burundi: Strengthening Infrastructure and
Capacity to Combat HIV/AIDS. Retrieved
from https://drive.google.com/file/
d/1N3v2HM3BbWsjonfdqzYrE-EPXgEr-urw/
view.
UNOSSC. 2016. IBSA Fund Report 2016 - Cabo Verde:
Delivering Safe Drinking Water , https://drive.
google.com/file/d/1tJ8o9FcNuUDbI3ONGIM
QNTxUBSLtHnwS/view.

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
90
IBSA Report 2021
UNOSSC. 2018. IBSA Fund Report 2018 - State of
Palestine - Reconstruction of Atta Habib Medical
Centre in Gaza City; Construction and Equipping
of a Centre for Persons with Severe Intellectual
Disabilities; and Rehabilitation of the Cultural and
Hospital Centre. Retrieved from https://drive.
google.com/file/d/1zv2Z3Zl7raAHkpf0arqsLe
N5nR1zYp00/view.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 - “Leveraging
Zambia’s Agro-industry Potential in Rural
Areas through Enhanced Soya Bean Production
and Processing”; and “SIERRA LEONE
Digital Financial Services”, Retrieved from
https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-content/
uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 - Bolivia -
Increased Access to Water, Improved Livestock
Production and Post-drought Food Security.
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 - CABO
VERDE - Delivering Safe Drinking Water
& GUINEA -BISSAU - Rural Electrification
through Solar-Energy Systems. Retrieved
from https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 – Cambodia:
Empowering Children and Adolescents with
Special Needs; “KIRIBATI Inclusive Sustainable
Economic Development through Coconut-sector
Development”, and “SUDAN Creation of Job
Opportunities for Youth in Sudan through
Labour-intensive Work Opportunities”. Retrieved
from https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 - Eliminating
Child Marriages in Malawi and Zambia. Retrieved
from https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-Annual-
Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2019. IBSA Fund Report 2019 - Empowering
Rural Women: Scaling Up the Rocket Stove Project.
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.org/
wp-content/uploads/2021/03/IBSA-Fund-
Annual-Report-2019.pdf.
UNOSSC. 2021a. “About IBSA Trust Fund”, United
Nations Office for South-South Cooperation.
Retrieved from https://www.unsouthsouth.
org/partner-with-us/ibsa/.
UNOSSC. 2021b. IBSA Fund Annual Report 2020. United
Nations office for South-South Cooperation – UNDP.
Vieira, M.A. 2013. “IBSA at 10: South-South
development assistance and the challenge to
build international legitimacy in a changing
global order”. Strategic Analysis. Retrieved from
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.108
0/09700161.2013.782630?journalCode=rsan20&.
Woods, N. & Batniji, R. 2020. “A Global COVID-19 Exit
Strategy”. The Project Syndicate. April 9, 2020.
Retrieved from https://www.project-syndicate.
org/commentary/COVID-19-exit-strategy-
requires-global-cooperation-by-ngaire-woods-
and-rajaie-batniji-2020-04.

Eminent Voices

93
Rationale for IBSA within the
Realities of BRICS
T
he IBSA (India-Brazil-South Africa)
grouping is poised to emerge as one of the
main pillars of the new world order. The
three countries - with a democratic framework,
emerging economies and shared interest in
global peace, as well as prosperity and progress
- are best suited to play a leading role in the
emerging new world order. The capabilities
and the important role that the Global South
has played and can continue to play in the
future has to be understood and appreciated
in the present context. It is true that the global
economy has been strengthened, literally brick
by brick, by institutions like the BRICS; but the
role of IBSA cannot be overlooked. The end
of the World War II heralded a new phase of
economic and geopolitical realignment resulting
in a complex socio-economic shift amidst the
Cold War realities. While the technical and
economic cooperation between the countries in
the Global North took an ascending trajectory,
the Global South increasingly felt the need
for realignment, especially in the areas of
technology, agriculture, health care, education
and manufacturing.
The Buenos Aires Plan adopted by 138
members of the United Nations (UN) on 18
September 1978, laid the foundation of one of the
most profound and revolutionary frameworks
for South-South Cooperation.
1 The traditional
way of looking at socio-economic development
underwent a drastic change and new paradigms
like ‘emerging economies’ have developed
over the years blurring the divisions between
developed and underdeveloped countries and
North-South divide. More importantly, the
world realised the need for shifting from conflict
fuelled economy to a sustainable growth model
that emphasises on collective participation
and developmental cooperation. It is here that
IBSA’s Uniqueness and
Role vis-à-vis BRICS
Seshadri Chari*
7
* Chairman, China Study Centre, MAHE, Karnataka, and Member, Governing Council, RIS, India

94
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
IBSA’s progress as a role model for facing the
challenges before the global community while
grappling with the emerging new world order,
assumes significance. There is sufficient scope to
analyse the contours of this progress with special
reference to the trilateral, transnational and
multilateral alliances which has strengthened
capacity building and economic fundamentals
through collective growth and international
participation without compromising with
respective sovereign autonomy.
Even as the BRICS countries received
attention and raised hopes of making significant
contribution to global economics especially after
the 2008-09 economic meltdown, it is the IBSA
countries that devoted much of their energies
to revive economic growth within the global
democratic framework. It is in this context that
the independence of IBSA assumes greater
relevance. The growth trajectory of IBSA is
different from that of the BRICS mainly due to
the challenges these three countries face while
they formulated an inclusive open economy
while keeping anchored in democracy. While
authoritarian dispensations controlled by a
single political outfit, however old historically,
have greater freedom and lessor accountability
towards local groups and global institutions, the
IBSA countries have to discharge much greater
responsibility towards its population which
elects these governments.
The aggressive economic policies and
programmes that China began to unveil after
the inclusion of South Africa in the BRIC
platform (making it BRICS) were expected to
pose a challenge to the geopolitical regrouping
in the region and elsewhere. The bilateral trade
between India and South Africa suffered a
marginal setback but stabilised after a couple of
years. In spite of the commitment to multilateral
trade policies as envisaged by the BRICS
charter, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) rolled
out as the flagship programme of China since
2014 made deep inroads into the economies of
IBSA countries. But soon the intra-IBSA trade
found its pace and could match the gains made
by economies that became part of the BRI and
BRICS trade block.
 In continuance of its aggressive trade
policies, China established contacts with Angola
and Zimbabwe and upgraded its relations with
South Africa to a strategic partnership. With the
inclusion of South Africa, the BRICS became a
much stronger forum for China to carry out its
exclusive trade pacts with countries in Africa.
In such circumstances, it becomes all the more
important for the IBSA partners to insulate
their economies from being overwhelmed by
one strong economy much to the detriment of
multilateral trade and cooperative framework.
Similarity of Economic Development
among IBSA Members
A cursory look at the IBSA trade and
developmental cooperation will throw light
on the existing cooperative framework as
well as the potential IBSA has to fuel the post-
pandemic global economy. The 2006 IBSA
Summit witnessed the signing of the IBSA
Action Plan on Trade Facilitation for Standards
and Technical Regulations and Conformity
Assessment. Close on the heels of this Action
Plan, Trilateral Free Trade Agreements were
established to facilitate regional cooperation and
lay the foundation for both trade and services. A
number of multilateral agreements have added
a new dimension to the trade between IBSA
members. It was important for the three member
countries to streamline manufacturing and
production norms to standardise the product
and process methodologies. This was achieved
by framing trade standardisation by the Trade
and Investment Joint Working Group (IBSA-
TIJWG). India’s Bureau of Indian standards
(BIS) worked closely with agencies like the
South African Bureau of Standards (SABS) and
the Brazilian Association of Technical Norms
(ABNT). In addition to these institutional

95
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
framework agreements, private industry
in these three countries formed federations
of IBSA business forums and chambers of
commerce to facilitate better understanding of
the market and seamless movement of capital
and goods.
For instance, recently amid the pandemic,
the National Small Industries Corporation
Ltd (NSIC), Brazil’s Micro and Small Business
Support Service (SEBRAE), Department of
Small Business Development (DSBD) and
Small Enterprise Development Agency (SEDA),
South Africa, together with India’s Ministry
of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises held
a virtual conference on ways to help SMEs
in the three countries to collaborate and
boost their exports, attract investments, as
well as to address the trade and investment
barriers hurting their growth prospects. They
also aimed to mainstream MSMEs in their
respective national entrepreneurial ecosystem,
thereby promoting inclusivity and sustainable
development through innovative models, as
well as facilitating the integration of the IBSA
MSMEs into global value chains and devising
strategies to help them prepare for future global
crises. More such knowledge-sharing and
networking initiatives can help strengthen IBSA
MSME and industry cooperation by leveraging
their respective strengths and addressing
weaknesses, and in turn, take them global.
2 As
a result of these and other contributory factors,
the intra-IBSA trade witnessed a healthy growth
in the first decade of the century as it rose from
USD 2.5 billion in 2003 to USD 21 billion nearly
a decade since then.
IBSA Poised for a Global Role
IBSA was founded on the principle of
cooperative economic engagement between
democracies. It is, therefore, only one of its
kind within the South-South Cooperation
framework. The BRICS includes Russia and
China which have a political system that does
not fully fall within the ambit of multiparty
parliamentary democracy with special features
of cooperative economic and political federalism
incorporated in the governance system. This
makes the process of cooperative economic
structures operationally unviable and remains
non-insulated from authoritarian central
political command structure. Therefore IBSA,
as differentiated from the BRICS, retains its
uniqueness of representing three democracies
which favours a free and inclusive world order
ready to address the needs of developing
countries and emerging economies without
compromising with their strategic autonomy
on the political and security aspects.
The dynamics of the post-pandemic socio-
political-economic system is posing a challenge
to the fundamentals of the present world
order which requires a re-look. There is an
intense contestation between the agenda of
hegemonic grip over the world order on the
one hand and the need to retain the basic free
and inclusive parameters of working on the
other. The power projection and trajectory
are evident on both sides of the spectrum.
The present international institutions and the
financial order will have to pass the test of
sustaining such a free and liberal outlook and
at the same time come up to the expectations of
emerging economies that need large infusions
of investments, infrastructure development and
easy but string-free credit. Tying up countries
in a debt-trap or trading with their sovereignty
for aid are both repugnant  to the essence of
democratic thinking, functioning, world view
and development model as envisaged by IBSA.
The world order is slowly but surely moving
towards meaningful multilateralism which
will define the future rules of engagement
between countries to resolve all issues falling
within the ambit of geo-politics, geo-security,
geo-strategic and geo-economics. IBSA has all
the fundamental qualities to rise to the occasion
and fulfil the needs of the hour by strengthening
the existing international partnerships and
multilateral alliances.

96
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
The Way Forward for IBSA
The post-pandemic world is likely to be very
different from the one that existed before the
pandemic which brought the global economy
to a grinding halt. While the economies are
picking up slowly, the cascading effect of the
intervention is likely to remain for a much
longer time than expected. All the countries are
in the process of recalibrating their respective
growth targets and adjusting the local laws and
systems to face the emerging challenges. IBSA
as an institution is no exception to the affliction
that every other country and institution faces.
IBSA has yet another challenge in the form
of country-specific internal socio-economic
impediments. The three democracies have to
kick-start production and consumption even
as they face the challenge of high imports and
low per capita income. Inflation is yet another
issue that the democracies face especially
when it comes to frequent elections where
parties become answerable to the voters. IBSA
members need to insulate their policies and
programmes of trilateral engagement from the
vicissitudes of political vagaries.
IBSA members face very different challenges
in their respective regions and have realised
the need to exchange the lessons of regional
balancing even while working on bilateral,
trilateral and multilateral forums. What makes
IBSA special and unique is its capability to work
at all levels with ease and avoids duplication and
conflict of interest. Taking forward such intent,
the three countries have identified the need
for closer cooperation on development-related
issues, as well as on public administration and
governance, and recently launched a web portal
to develop a knowledge base for sharing their
best practices and experiences in this regard.
3
The political establishment in each country now
needs to extend sufficient autonomy to their
respective representatives who are guiding
the IBSA Dialogue Forum and other trade and
technology arrangements within IBSA. It will
be in the best interest of IBSA to have a more
vibrant, easily approachable working set up
closer to the three capitals. Similarly, each
member can nominate a nodal agency from
respective countries to coordinate the working
of IBSA.
Communication, upgrading networks and
rebuilding global value chains are going to be
the immediate tasks before every economy.
The pioneer gets the rewards in these activities.
IBSA has to attend to the task of rebuilding
global value chains and supporting them with
technical inputs, ease of business regulations,
as well as investment friendly business and
taxation models. Besides, rules of investment
and banking regulations could be integrated
so as to resonate with the requirements of
seamless flow of technology, funds and
resources - both human and others - as also
to increase cultural, educational, research and
development interactions.
IBSA countries have a special mechanism to
advance their common agenda and integrate
it with their respective national and regional
agenda. One aspect of this mechanism is the
forum to coordinate and hold consultations
on global issues that have a bearing on
regional, institutional and national affairs
such as geopolitical changes, UN reforms,
UNSC resolutions and negotiations at global
bodies. Another aspect is improving trilateral
working through the sixteen working groups
to further the common agenda of trade,
production, sectoral meetings and commerce.
The IBSA Fund needs to be evolved into a
more permanent structure so as to bring more
countries into its fold and reach out to a greater
number of projects and destinations. At a time
when developing economies are facing the
detrimental consequences of economic initiative
of one country and the resultant debt-trap, it
is all the more important to tap into greater
resources and developmental aid structures.
Another aspect that IBSA needs to consider
is to increase coordination between regional
institutions like the QUAD, IORA, AAGC,

97
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
BIMSTEC, etc. so as to widen the scope of its
activities and also reach out to more people
and places. In a couple of years from now, it
will be two decades of IBSA’s working since
its formation in 2003. Its significant and unique
contribution to further the agenda of South-
South Cooperation is well recognised by now.
The strategic location of IBSA members adds
significant value to their activities and increases
the scope of its operations and outreach. It
is time for IBSA to consider experimenting
with IBSA+ working group and include a few
emerging democracies and invitees to their
working group meetings. This will hasten the
process of rebuilding the supply chain and
global value chain mechanisms which are
badly damaged now due to pandemic induced
interventions. IBSA has a role, responsibility and
duty towards ensuring a positive contribution
to the betterment of transcontinental South-
South Cooperation. Another important aspect
that the IBSA partners need to take into
consideration is the seminal role they can play
in the emerging architecture of the Indo-Pacific
which seriously needs to factor in a trade block
as well along with the other aspects such as
connectivity and collective security. These are
only some of the aspects that will go a long
way to suggest the importance of keeping the
IBSA framework as a united and collective
unit of democracies dedicated to strengthen
developmental partnership and lead the South-
South Cooperation.
Endnotes
1 See, Buenos Aires Plan of Action (1978), URL:
https://www.unsouthsouth.org/bapa40/
documents/buenos-aires-plan-of-action/.
2 Secretary MSME underlines need for hand-
holding support to MSMEs through capacity
building trainings, exchange of best practices
and technologies, URL: https://pib.gov.in/
PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1753058
3 Derived from Trade with BRICS countries.
See https://pib.gov.in/newsite/PrintRelease.
aspx?relid=67888.

99
A New World Order
I
ndia, Brazil and South Africa are facing a
new world order with many new challenges.
IBSA was created as a Dialogue Forum
in 2003 by the Brasilia Declaration, bringing
together three large democracies and major
economies. They present singular experiences
of different developing countries, from three
different continents. The main objective of
IBSA, at that time, was to contribute to the
construction of a new international architecture,
bringing voices from the South to global issues.
After almost 10 years since its creation, IBSA
must be prepared to face emerging challenges.
The world had survived severe pandemics
and is still facing immense problems related
to public health. The COVID-19 pandemic has
disrupted economies and pushed millions of
people into poverty.
At the international front, a new world
order is unfolding. The confrontation of the
two biggest military and economic powers is
affecting the old equilibrium established under
the US supremacy. China is now contesting
for primacy not only on economic terms
of production and trade but also in digital
innovation and military technologies. Amid
these developments, the EU has presented
its main strategies – relaunching its activities
based on green and digital economies under the
new mantra of an “open strategic autonomy”,
and designating itself as an independent third
power.  Russia is preparing its new role for its
region. Many questions have been raised: Is the
US abandoning its old allies? What will happen
in the Middle East? What will be the future of
Afghanistan and Iran? What is the meaning of
the nuclear submarines accord AUKUS?  How
IBSA and the
Challenges of the
New Geopolitical Order
Vera Thorstensen*
Victor Vieira**
8
* Professor of the São Paulo School of Economics – FGV, Coordinator of the Center on Global Trade and Investment
- CCGI and Head of the WTO Chair in Brazil. For 15 years she was the economic advisor of the Mission of Brazil to
the WTO.
** Doctoral student at FGV and coordinator at the Modeling Sector of CCGI - FGV.

100
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
this will affect South Asia seas and the Pacific?
Which will be the reaction of China? Who will
be the strategic allies of South America, Africa
and India in this new context?
This new geopolitics is repositioning
countries at the trade arena. Trade flows
are growing to 2019 levels. However, the
logics of global chains are being transformed
by diversification and regionalization of
suppliers. A new wave of trade liberalization is
transferred from the multilateral WTO arena to
mega-agreements centered on the US, EU and
China. At the WTO, with the paralysis of the
Doha Round and the blockage of its dispute
mechanism by the US, the organization is facing
a huge crisis, waiting the unfolding of this new
global order. Preferential agreements are being
multiplied, all around the world, pressed by
recent mega-agreements that are pumping new
rules to the system, and replacing the legal order
established by the WTO.
Around 450 such agreements notified to the
WTO and enterprises. Geopolitics is paving
the way for new mega-agreements. The US
is being pressed to rebuild its trade policy,
after burying its creation – TPP-12 (However,
following the lead of Japan and Chile, it was
reborn as TPP-11 or CPTPP). The US, in the
last years, has re-launched NAFTA as USMCA.
The EU is advancing its trade model around
its new priorities: environment, corporate
responsibility, carbon adjustment measures.
China is part of another mega-agreement
– RCEP that includes Japan, South Korea,
Australia and ASEAN countries as members.
RCEP is designing a new sort of framework
for trade blocs, based only on the reduction
of tariffs, soft rules of origin, trade facilitating
schemes, and promoting global value chains.
India has a long list of PTA, but they are
partial at scope and shallow for rules. Good
initiatives can be shown for India PTAs with
ASEAN, Japan and South Korea. However,
India, at the last minute, decided not to join
RCEP mainly due to differences with China.
Brazil is part of only a few agreements in South
America, and partial ones with India and South
Africa through Mercosur. Mercosur completed
negotiations with the EU for a deep agreement,
but is in danger of losing all this effort with the
impasse created by Brazil´s attitude toward
deforestation, illegal mining and a low concern
to environment – a major concern for the EU.
South Africa has a significant list of agreements,
but they are based on partial agreements and
preferences toward regional partners. In this
new economic order, countries are seriously
challenged to rethink their strategic alliances
with new political, defense and economic
objectives.
On the domestic level, in a post-pandemic
era, governments are forced to redefine
priorities to address new pressing social and
political demands. At the external level, the
multilateralism is at a crossroads. International
organizations are being forced to rethink their
objectives, functions and funding and are in a
waiting mood. India, Brazil and South Africa
also belong to the BRICS group. However,
what will be the future of BRICS in this new
geopolitical order? How the conflict between
the US and China will affect its existence?
Can IBSA redefine a new role for itself? At the
present moment, IBSA countries have not yet
consolidated deep agreements with the main
developed countries. Can a new South-South
initiative be designed? India, Brazil and South
Africa are major economies with a substantial
population and have considerable influence
in their respective regions. These countries
are multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and multi-
religious. Certainly it should look for a new role
in the present global scenario.
 Trade and WTO
An attentive assessment of the big numbers of
these three countries reveals a striking reality:
their intra-trade flows are insignificant. What is
happening among these countries? Why does
the intra-trade flow remain so trivial?- are the

101
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
questions need to be investigated further. In
the international arena, a big political problem
exists among these three partners. India, Brazil
and South Africa were major partners at the
international trade arena. They had worked
together at the WTO and were instrumental in
creating the G20 coalition in the Doha Round
and were quite successful in taking forward their
interests to the final draft of the new agriculture
agreement. They are raised to the core of the
WTO G5. After the unsuccessful attempt to
conclude the round, with the Lamy package,
in 2008, India and Brazil started defending new
priorities and assuming different positions at
the WTO.
Currently, Brazil supports the inclusion
of new trade issues through plurilateral
agreements, mainly related to e-commerce and
investment facilitation. India and South Africa
are refusing to accept any new issues at the
WTO and are seeking the continuation of the
Doha Round with advances on development
points to first successfully conclude the
outstanding issues including those related to
food security. The crises created by the conflict
between US and China on the concept of market
economies are also obstructing the reform of
the WTO dispute mechanism. These impasses
brought deep crises to the organization and
paralyzed the trading system. The consequence
is the multiplication of preference agreements
and the fragmentation of trade rules. At the
present moment, however, there are dangerous
new facts on the tables of negotiations. The
conflict US-China is pressing for new attitudes.
It is time, after so many years of paralysis, to
bring WTO back to the center of the multilateral
trading system. On this stage, IBSA has an
important role to play in reviving the WTO.
Their conflicting interests can be solved with
a little bit of negotiation. This will allow the
three countries to re-conquer their weight at
the international trading arena. And even for
IBSA, there is another interesting initiative
worth considering that should be brought to the
attention of these three main players. How about
bringing trade to the South-South Dialogue?
They need to expedite their negotiations on
a trade agreement (India-Mercosur-SACU)
and come to an agreement on a shallow PTA
based on the reduction of tariffs and quotas,
cumulative rules of origin, services and WTO
rules, and later on expand it to cover issues such
as e-commerce, environment and investment.
To partners of Brazil in Mercosur and South
Africa in SACU, more flexible proposals could
be offered. Why this initiative is not brought
back to the tables? A quick analysis can be
presented here to show the strength of these
partners.
Trade Agreements of IBSA Members
IBSA countries can present a significant
number of preferential agreements with their
regional partners.
•  India Trade Agreements: India has an
impressive list of trade agreements. It
has FTAs with ASEAN, South Asian
countries, Japan and South Korea. It also has
cooperation agreements with many African
and European countries, and a partial trade
agreement with Mercosur.
• Brazil Trade Agreements: Brazil´s core
agreement is with Mercosur, a custom zone
including goods and services. In the region ,
Brazil is a member of ALADI, a preferential
agreement on goods among 12 South
American countries. Brazil also has partial
trade agreements with India, Israel, SACU
and Egypt. The most important agreement
of Mercosur is with EU. Negotiations were
finalized in 2019, but the conclusion and
signatures are pending on a new adjustment
related to deforestation, environment and
sustainability, the main priorities of the EU.
• South Africa Trade Agreements: South
Africa has a significant number of trade
agreements. The core regional agreement
is SACU – a duty-free trade among South
Africa and the other four countries -

102
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and Eswatini.
SADC involves an FTA among 12 of the
15 African members. There is a partial
agreement with Mercosur and India.
South Africa, through SADC, has finalized
negotiations with EAC and COMESA.
South Africa is also a member of the newly
launched African Continental Free Trade
Area - AfCFTA. It also has cooperation
agreements with China and the US.
A Re-launch for the IBSA PTA
It is evident that, even with the crises in the
WTO, India and South Africa diversify their
trade strategy with the preferential agreement.
Brazil follows a different track. The question
now is to analyze whether, at the present time,
there is a possibility to re-launch a PTA among
IBSA countries. A critical look at the trade
numbers is worthwhile.
General View
India, Brazil and South Africa are big countries,
with population around, 1,300 million, 212
million and 60 million, a market for 1.6 billion
people. Their respective GDP is also significant:
US$ 29 trillion, US$ 1.9 trillion and US$ 350
billion (2019). India and Brazil are major export
and import countries of goods, and India is
a major trader of services. Numbers in 2020
are lower than in 2019 due to the pandemic
effects. To analyze the opportunity of a new
preferential agreement among IBSA countries,
an examination of trade number is relevant.
They are presented at the WTO data-base.
Exports x Imports of goods - 2020 (US$
billion)
Exports Exports Imports Imports
2019 2020 2019 2020
India 324 276 484 372
Brazil 223 210 184 166
South
Africa 90 86 108 84
Exports x Imports of services – 2020
Exports Exports Imports Imports
2019 2020 2019 2020
India 214 203 178 153
Brazil 33 28 67 47
South
Africa na 7 na 10
In terms of imports, non-agricultural goods
are important for India and Brazil.
Imports of agriculture and non-
agriculture goods 2019 (US$ billion)
Total Agri Non-agri
India 478 23 454
Brazil 170 10 160
South Africa 80 6 74
Source: WTO 2021
Major markets for exports
Information from WTO can also provide the
countries of their exports.
India:
For agricultural goods – EU, US, Saudi Arabia,
Iran and China.
For non-agricultural goods – US, EU, China,
Hong-Kong-China and UAE.
Brazil:
For agricultural goods – China, EU, US, Japan
and Egypt.
For non-agricultural goods – China. US. EU,
Argentina and Chile.
South Africa:
For agricultural goods: EU, Botswana, Namibia,
China and US.
For non-agricultural goods – EU, China, US,
India and Japan.

103
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Tariffs
In terms of tariffs, compared to other emerging
countries, Brazil and India can be considered
closed economies. Tariffs of industrial goods
above 10 per cent presents higher percentages
when compared to other emerging countries.
The numbers also came from WTO – Countries
Profile (2020)
Tariffs – simple average MFN applied
(2019)
Total Agri Non-agri
India 15 34 12
Brazil 13 10 14
South Africa 8 9 8
Source: WTO, 2021
Bilateral Trade Relations among
IBSA Countries
Brazil and India present a very small trade
relation in bilateral trade when compared to
other partners. Brazil and South Africa trade
relations are also very small. The same can be
said between India and South Africa.
Trade Relations Brazil and India 2017-
2019 (US billions)
2017 2018 2019
Exports from B to I $4.657 $3.908 $2.776
Imports to B from I $2.984 $3.867 $4.536
Net result for B $1.672 $41 -$1.760
Source: Comexstat, 2021
Trade Relations Brazil – South Africa
2017-2019 (US billions)
2017 2018 2019
Exports from B to SA $1.509 $1.362 $1.132
Imports to B from SA $490 $664 $751
Net result for B $1.019 $698 $380
Source: Comexstat, 2021
Trade Relations India-South Africa
2017 2018 2019
Exports from I to SA 3.588 3.052 3.546
Imports to I from SA 5.907 5.096 5.834
Net result for B -2.319 -2.044 -2288
Source: Comexstat, 2021
Trade among the IBSA Countries
In order to look at the possibility to ink a
preferential agreement between IBSA countries,
it is important to analyze aggregate data. These
numbers are presented at the GTAP sectoral
level and were extracted from WITS database.
1
The main products exported and imported
among IBSA countries are the following:
• Brazil exports to India – average exports
in the last five years (2015-2019): Mineral
oil (35.0 per cent), Sugar (17.5 per cent),
Vegetable oil and fats (11.6 per cent), Non-
ferrous metals (8.4 per cent) and Chemical
Products (7.6 per cent). Those five sectors
accounted for almost 80 per cent of Brazilian
exports to India.
• Brazil imports from India – average imports
(2015-2019): Chemical products (35 per
cent); Petroleum and Coal products (17.5
per cent); Basic pharmaceutical products
(13.6 per cent); Textiles (8.4 per cent), and
Other Machinery and Equipment (7.6 per
cent). Those sectors accounted for almost
72 per cent of Brazilian imports from India
in the last five years.
• Brazil exports to South Africa – average
exports (2015-2019): Other meat products
(poultry and swine) (15.7 per cent), Non-
ferrous metals (11.3 per cent), Other
Machinery and Equipment (7.5 per cent),
Paper products and publishing (6.4 per cent)
and Chemical products (5.0 per cent). Those
five sectors accounted for almost 45 per cent
of Brazilian exports to South Africa.
• Brazil imports from South Africa – average
imports (2015-2019): Non-ferrous metals
(31.3 per cent); Chemical products (21.9 per

104
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
cent); Coal (12.6 per cent); Iron & Steel (9.9
per cent), and Motor vehicles and parts (6.7
per cent). Those sectors accounted for almost
83 per cent of Brazilian imports from South
Africa in the last five years.
• Indian exports to South Africa – average
exports (2015-2019): Petroleum and coal
products (21.6 per cent), Motor vehicles and
parts (21.1 per cent), Basic pharmaceutical
products (12.9 per cent), Chemical products
(8.0 per cent); and Other Machinery and
Equipment (5.2 per cent). Those five sectors
accounted for almost 80 per cent of India
exports to South Africa.
• Indian imports from South Africa – average
imported (2015-2019): Coal (47.8 per cent);
Non-ferrous metals (32.3 per cent); Iron
& Steel (4.6 per cent); Paper products and
publishing (3.7 per cent), and Motor vehicles
and parts (6.7 per cent). Those sectors
accounted for almost 91 per cent of India
imports from South Africa in the last five
years.
A Simulation of a PTA among IBSA
Countries
Simulating a PTA among IBSA countries is done
using the GTAP mode. The analysis was carried
out using version 10.1 of GTAP database. The
standard GTAP is a comparative-static General
Equilibrium Model, whose database has
information on 65 sectors (45 goods 20 services),
of 141 countries/regions. The countries in
the database account for 98 per cent of world
GDP and 92 per cent of world population. In
this research, the dynamic version of GTAP
(henceforth GDyn) has been used. GDyn is a
recursively dynamic general equilibrium model
largely used in the analysis of the impact of
Preferential Trade Agreements (FTA).
Table 1: Impact of IBSA FTA on Macroeconomic indicators, accumulated 2022-2035.
Source: Authors’ calculations.

105
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
GDyn extends the standard GTAP model to
include international capital mobility, capital
accumulation, and an adaptive expectations
theory of investment. The main objective of
GDyn is to provide a better treatment of the long
run within the GTAP framework. To evaluate
the impacts of an external shock in the global
economy (like an FTA), GDyn projects two
scenarios for the global economy: a “Baseline”
projection, that simulates what is expected the
world economy look like without an external
shock; and a “Policy” projection, that consider
how the economy will look like with the external
shock (like the India-Brazil-South Africa FTA).
The difference between the two paths shows the
effect of the policy under analysis.

Results and Conclusions
All results presented in the next section are
the difference between Policy and Baseline
projections, accumulated in the period 2022-
2035.
Macroeconomic result - The Table 1 shows that
the impact of a FTA between India, Brazil and
South Africa would have positive impact on the
main macro-economic indicators in all countries.
Considering the accumulated difference
between policy and baseline projections
during 2022 to 2035, Brazil’s GDP is expected
to be 0.12 per cent higher (approximately
US$ 50.4 billion) in a scenario with an FTA,
India’s GDP is expected to be 0.22 per cent
higher (approximately US$ 138.0 billion) in
a scenario with an FTA, and South Africa’s
GDP it expected to be 0.30 per cent higher
(approximately US$ 18.9 billion) in a scenario
with an FTA. Impacts on investments would
also be positive. Considering the accumulated
results, in scenario with an IBSA FTA shows
that investments in Brazil would be 0.18 per
cent higher (approximately US$ 78.9 billion), in
India 0.37 per cent higher (approximately US$
206.7 billion), and in South Africa’s 1.42 per cent
higher (approximately US$ 93.3 billion). Table
1 also shows a positive impact on total exports
and imports in India, Brazil, and South Africa.
Again, considering the accumulated difference,
the results in a policy projection (with the FTA)
on Brazil’s total exports and imports were
higher by 1.77 per cent (approximately US$
70.0 billion) and 2.08 per cent (approximately
US$ 251.5 billion) respectively. India’s total
exports and imports were higher by 0.07 per
cent (approximately US$ 408.3 billion) and
0.87 per cent (approximately US$ 189.9 billion)
respectively, and South Africa’s total exports
and imports were higher by 2.51 per cent
(approximately US$ 145.3 billion) and 4.92
per cent (approximately US$ 204.2 billion)
respectively.  Regarding trading between IBSA
members, results show that in a scenario with
FTA, Brazil’s imports from India and South
Africa grow more than its exports to those
countries.
As can be seen in Table 1, Brazilian exports
and imports to/from India are 64 per cent
(approximately US$ 50.8 billion) and 67 per
cent (approximately US$ 253.2 billion) higher
in a scenario with FTA, respectively. Similarly,
results shows that Brazilian exports and
imports to/from South Africa are 90 per cent
(approximately US$ 18.1 billion) and 92 per
cent (approximately US$ 11.3 billion) higher
in a scenario with IBSA FTA, respectively.
Indian’s exports to Brazil and South Africa
should grow more than its Imports. Table 1
shows that Indian exports and imports to/from
Brazil should be 67 per cent (approximately US$
253.2 billion) and 64 per cent (approximately
US$ 50.8 billion) higher in an FTA scenario,
respectively, whereas Indian exports and
imports to/from South Africa should be 102
per cent (approximately US$ 193.1 billion) and
92 per cent (approximately US$ 143.0 billion),
higher in an FTA scenario, respectively.
Sectoral Results
Sectoral Impacts in Brazil
Table 2 shows that the sectors in Brazil most
positively impacted in terms of absolute
difference (accumulated between 2022-2035)

106
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
between policy and baseline projections are
chemical products (US$ 9.9 billion), non-ferrous
metals (US$ 9.7 billion), processed sugar (US$
7.9 billion), construction (US$ 7.7 billion) and
motor vehicles and parts (US$ 7.1 billion). On
the other hand, the sectors most negatively
impacted would be Textiles (-US$ 22.6 billion),
wearing apparel (-US$ 18.5 billion), other
business services (-US$ 10.9 billion), basic
pharmaceutical products (US$ -4.6 billion) and
petroleum, coal products (-US$ 3.1 billion).
Table 2: Sectors most impacted on Output in Brazil, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
As shown in Table 2 (increase of sectoral exports), most sectors positively impacted in terms
output benefited with an increase in exports, whereas most sectors negatively impacted in terms
of output were those that faced an increase in imports, showing a potential effect of imports-
substitution, where the goods local produced are substituted by similar imported.
Table 3: Sectors most impacted on Exports in Brazil, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)

107
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Table 4: Sectors most impacted on Imports in Brazil, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
Table 5: Sectors most impacted on Output in India, accumulated difference Table
(Billion US$)
As shown in Table 6 (an increase of sectoral exports), similar to Brazil, most sectors positively
impacted in terms of output in India also benefited from an increase in exports, whereas, as
showed, most sectors negatively impacted in terms of output were those that faced an increase
in Imports, showing a potential effect of imports-substitution, where the goods local produced
are substituted by similar imported.

108
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Table 6: Sectors most impacted on Exports in India, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
Table 7: Sectors most impacted on Imports in India, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
Sectoral impacts in South Africa
The following Table shows that the sectors in South Africa most positively impacted in terms of
absolute difference (accumulated between 2022-2035) between policy and baseline projections
were non-ferrous metals (US$ 51.5 billion), construction (US$ 7.9 billion), human health and social
work (US$ 4.9 billion), public services (US$ 3.1 billion) and dwellings” (US$ 1.4 billion). On the
other hand, the sectors most negatively impacted include wholesale and retail trade (-US$ 16.2
billion), apparel (-US$ 14.5 billion), motor vehicles and parts (-US$ -8.8 billion), textiles” (US$
-6.7 billion) and petroleum, coal products (-US$ 6.4 billion).

109
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Table 8: Sectors impacted on Output in South Africa, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
As shown in Table 9 (increase of sectoral exports), most sectors positively impacted in terms
output in South Africa, except non-ferrous metals, were not those ones with highest increase
in exports. This indicated that those sectors would be impacted due to an increase in domestic
consumption. Similarly, regarding imports, except apparel and “Motor Vehicles and parts”, the
other sectors negatively impacted in terms of output were not those ones that faced an increase
in imports, showing a lower effect of imports-substitution compared to India and Brazil.
Table 9: Sectors impacted on Exports in South Africa, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
110
IBSA Report 2021
Table 10: Sectors impacted on Imports in South Africa, accumulated difference
(Billion US$)
Conclusion
The main objective of launching IBSA was
to contribute to the development of a new
international architecture by amplifying
voices from the South at a global level. Given
the emerging challenges on account of the
COVID-19 pandemic and the focus on public
health, widespread economic crisis and increase
in poverty levels, IBSA countries must forge
a deeper collaboration to provide innovative
solutions. With the uncertainty surrounding
the WTO trade negotiations, and the focus on
preferential trade agreements, IBSA countries
should expedite negotiations on the trilateral
trade pact (India-Mercosur-SACU) and take
forward South-South ties.
Endnote
1 Data was extracted from World Integrated Trade
Solution (WITS) of World Bank at HS6 level and
aggregated at GTAP sectoral level.

111
IBSA and Africa’s
Development Agenda
Anil Sooklal*
Letlhogonolo Mashilo**
9
* Deputy Director-General, Sherpa IBSA (India-Brazil-South Africa), DIRCO, South Africa, and Adjunct Senior
Fellow, RIS, India.
** Director, Economic Affairs and Regional Organisations DIRCO, South Africa
Introduction
O
n the occasion of the 6th IBSA Academic
Forum and the eve of the 6 th IBSA
Summit, it is befitting that the India,
Brazil, South Africa (IBSA) Dialogue Forum,
takes stock of its trajectory since its inception.
IBSA was founded as a pioneer formation
in a global system that had until then been
dominated by the developed western
powers with developing countries serving as
spectators to global geo-political, economic
and developmental agendas which directly
impacted on their future well-being. The three
visionary leaders of India, Brazil and South
Africa established the IBSA Dialogue Forum
in 2003 as a concerted effort to bring to bear on
the global community, the powerful voice of
the developing South.
The three large pluralistic, democratic
states straddling the three continents of
Asia, Latin America and Africa were well
positioned as leading developing countries
in their respective regions to provide an
authentic voice from the Global South. The
historical colonial struggle credentials ensured
that they emerged and articulated not only
their interest but the collective interest of
the developing world. Eighteen years later,
IBSA is a bonafide champion of the Global
South in terms of, i) promotion of south-south
cooperation dialogues, ii) establishment of
common positions on issues of global political/
multilateral importance, iii) reform of global
governance structures, iv) strengthening
commercial/investment ties, v) information
exchange and technological cooperation, iv)
tangible contribution to developmental needs

112
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
of developing countries in the fight against
poverty and hunger.
South Africa’s membership of IBSA
brings into the partnership not only its own
representation but a direct association with the
African continent. On a national level, the Forum
enables South Africa to contribute to its own
National Development Plan (NDP) by learning
and adopting best practices and building
capacity through IBSA’s close proximity and
observance of the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) frameworks in addressing
challenges of poverty, unemployment and
inequality in third countries, particularly on the
African continent. South Africa can imitate and
replicate these experiences in creating a better
South Africa and a better Africa as articulated
in its foreign policy. On a regional level, the
Forum empowers South Africa to address and
contribute towards the developmental needs of
sister African countries through the Forum in an
impactful manner as advocated by the African
Union Agenda 2063. Furthermore, on a global
level, South Africa is empowered to contribute
through the Forum towards the development of
other developing countries of the Global South.
Irrespective of the above-mentioned
cooperation, the Forum’s endeavours have had
direct impactful developmental outcomes on the
African continent through the aptly named IBSA
Facility for Poverty and Hunger Alleviation
(IBSA Fund). The IBSA Fund established
in 2006, as a Head-of-State-level initiative
that supports South-South Cooperation for
the benefit of developing countries has not
only been lauded as the model for South-
South Cooperation (2015-2016) by the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
it has also received complimentary remarks
from United Nations Secretary-General, Mr
Antonio Guterres, who stated “The IBSA Fund
is a commendable example of how developing
countries can come together to overcome hunger
and poverty through South-South Cooperation.
Its results and lessons learned will help us all
build a more peaceful and sustainable world for
all” (UNDP, 2017; 6). The success of the Fund
has been reiterated as that of a facility with
concrete projects on the ground at zero cost and
no conditions to recipient countries. It involves
the sharing of technical expertise, financing by
IBSA member states and implementation and
oversight by the United Office for South-South
Cooperation (UNOSSC).
The IBSA Fund has to date successfully
contributed to addressing all the seventeen (17)
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which
aim to “eradicate poverty in all its forms and
dimensions”, especially extreme poverty and
hunger as mainly experienced in the Global
South due to historical injustices. In this regard,
the IBSA Fund has been addressing challenges
of poverty eradication and sustainable
development on the African continent for
the past fifteen (15) years. The fund has
focused especially on African Least Developed
Countries (LDC), Landlocked Developing
Countries and Small Island Developing States
(SIDS) as postulated in Agendas 2030 and 2063
respectively. Furthermore, the attainment of  the
aspiration of Agenda 2063 of peace, prosperity,
inclusive growth, a sustainable development
in a secure Africa have, at a microscopic fund
level been pursued by the IBSA Fund through
fourteen (14) specialized developmental
projects implemented on the African continent
as will be discussed  later.
Consequently, an amount of US$ 43.63
million has been committed to 35 developmental
projects carried out in 31 partner countries of
the Global South as diverse as Cambodia,
Guyana, Haiti, Laos and the State of Palestine.
However, the African continent to date has
received a large proportion of IBSA Funded
projects. At least eight (8) countries from the
continent, namely, Burundi, Comoros, Eswatini,
Guinea-Bissau, Malawi, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Sudan and Zambia have benefitted from
IBSA projects.  The above-mentioned projects
cover issues of poverty relief, social equity,
development projects in the areas of food
security, education, skills and capacity building,

113
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
gender mainstreaming, health, infrastructure
and youth employability amongst others.
The Fund has an established relationship in
addressing Africa’s Development Agenda since
the inaugural IBSA Fund agricultural project
that was launched in Guinea-Bissau in 2005.
Over the past 16 years, there are currently nine
(9) completed projects, two (2) on-going projects
and two (2) recently approved projects in Africa
amounting to US$ 9,635 365, US$ 2,800 000
and US$ 1, 999 350, respectively. The aforesaid
African projects are in this article categorized
according to Agenda 2063 priority areas of; (i)
Jobs, Education, Health, Tourism, Agriculture,
(ii) Good Governance, Leadership, iii) Women/
Girls and Youth Empowerment.
A number of examples of IBSA Fund projects
implemented in Africa are listed as follows;
(i) Sudan – Creation of Job Opportunities
for Youth through labour-intensive work
opportunities (US$ 1, 300 000);
(ii) Sierra Leone – Leadership Development and
Capacity-building for Human Development
and Poverty Reduction (US$ 1, 000 000);
(iii) Burundi – Strengthening Infrastructure
and Capacity to Combat HIV/AIDS (US$
1,145,630);
(iv) Guinea-Bissau – Development of
Agriculture and Small Animal Herding -
Project I (US$ 498, 750);
(v) Guinea-Bissau – Agricultural Development
and Services to Rural Communities - Project
II (US$ 830, 000);
(vi)  Guinea-Bissau – Support for Lowland
Rehabilitation and for Agricultural and
Livestock Processing - Project III (1,550,000);
(vii) Guinea-Bissau – Rural Electrification
through Solar Energy Systems - Project IV
(US$ 596,305);
(viii) Zambia – Leveraging Zambia’s Agro-
Industry potential in Rural Areas through
Enhanced Soya Bean Production and
processing (US$ 1,714,680);
(ix) Comoros – Enhancing Agriculture Capacity
(US$ 1,800,000);
(x) Malawi and Zambia – Ending Child
Marriages (US$ 1,000 000).
The total cost of fund projects implemented
on the African continent amounts to US$
11,435, 365. The aforesaid total expenditure
on African projects is slightly higher than the
overall amount spent on projects in Asia and
Latin America. During the period 2004 – 2019,
Africa received 41 per cent of the approved
budget allocations as compared to 23 per cent
for Latin America and the Caribbean whilst the
Asia Pacific and the Arab States received 20
per cent and 14 per cent respectively. Despite
modest amounts contributed to fund projects
on the continent and elsewhere by the IBSA
countries, the return on investment and project
deliverables far outweigh initial project costs
because of the tangible outcomes made on
the ground and impacts made on the lives of
millions of beneficiaries, largely in the most
impoverished communities of the global south.
Analysis of IBSA Fund Projects
Implemented on the African
Continent
A large proportion of developmental projects
on the African continent from different donor
entities have mainly focused on; i) peace and
security, ii) election observer missions, iii)
drought-relief, iv) humanitarian assistance, v)
good governance and, vi) capacity building.
These projects have all had strict terms and
conditionalities often under the pretext of
accountability and fiduciary responsibilities and
moreover with project modalities prescribed by
aforesaid donor countries with the recipient
countries having little or no say. The IBSA
Facility has sought to establish a new paradigm
of South-South Cooperation wherein the
recipient countries take the lead in designing
and determining the nature of the project based
on their critical needs. The IBSA Facility   model
of funding operates in a different manner with

114
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
project proposals conveyed in the following way,
i) a project proposal from a developing country
is directly submitted to the UNOSSC offices in
New York, ii) a project proposal is submitted
through one of the IBSA Permanent Missions
to the United Nations (PMUN) in New York,
iii) a project proposal is alternatively submitted
to Foreign Ministries of IBSA countries or any
of the IBSA country missions represented
abroad. The project proposal modalities are
markedly different from the traditional Global
North-to-Global South model of donor funding
and support. Firstly, the project proposal is
initially drafted by the requesting country
in accordance with its national priorities.
Secondly, upon receipt of the project proposal
by IBSA countries and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the project
proposal is reviewed and its recommendations
are shared with the requesting country to effect
changes with their concurrence if needed.
Thereafter, the IBSA Board of Directors
comprised Permanent Representatives from
IBSA countries stationed in New York approves
the finalized project proposal for IBSA Funding.
The abovementioned project proposal approval
process subsequently sets the template for
a beneficial trilateral cooperation on terms
of global south players, that is, the recipient
countries, IBSA countries and the UNDP/
UNOSSC.
Ongoing Projects in Africa
In order to get a better understanding and
appreciation of IBSA projects on the African
continent, a review of three ongoing recently
approved projects will be elaborated. This
covers the areas of agriculture, renewable
energy and gender equality.
Comoros
The ongoing IBSA Fund project in Comoros
entitled; Enhancing Agricultural Capacity
is an agricultural project contributing to
food security and addressing Sustainable
Development Goal 2 (End hunger, achieve food
security and improved nutrition and promote
sustainable agriculture) which aims to enhance
and improve the production conditions and
commercialization of agricultural products
on the island of Mohéli . The project further
falls under the ambit of poverty eradication
and prevention of hunger programmes as
defined in the Comoros rural development
strategy. The project has been consistent
with the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture
Development Plan (CAADP) of the African
Union Development Programme (AUDA) on the
four pillars of, i) Land and Water management,
ii) Market Access, iii) Food Supply, and iv)
Hunger Eradication. Consequently, the project
has enhanced the food production of small-
scale farmers following sound agricultural
techniques for a variety of crops which in turn
cascades to benefit vulnerable groups such as
women and youth. The project was allocated
an amount of US$ 1,8 million to empower
and capacitate state farmers through modern
farming and drip irrigation systems.
The project set up a farm school to serve as
a learning centre in the rural areas, engaging
in farmer training, participating in training of
tractor operators, producing 450 kg of compost
units and sensitizing over 10 000 Comorian
diaspora youth to  agricultural practices on social
media. The project is implemented by the South
African Agriculture Research Council (ARC)
and its impact has been to impart technical
capacity on agricultural production and directly
address the scourge of poverty and eradication
of hunger. Subsidiary benefits of the project
have been the reduction of the cost of food as
a result of the reduction of overdependence on
imported basic foodstuff and thus enhancing
food security. Additionally, technical
agricultural skills have been developed/
enhanced and this had led to a measurable
creation of employment. In summary, a single
project has addressed food security, creation
of employment, the reduction of food prices
and elimination of poverty all at once whilst
simultaneously covering areas in the First Ten

115
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063,
namely, the objective of Modern Agriculture
for increased productivity and priority area
of production on the Agriculture/value
addition and agro-businesses development.
The Comorian agricultural project is one of two
such agricultural projects to be implemented
on the African continent, the second one being
in Zambia.
Guinea-Bissau
A completed Rural Electrification through
Solar Energy Systems is a solar energy project
in Guinea-Bissau implemented from July
2011 to May 2015. The project contributed to
SDG 7 (Ensure access to affordable, reliable,
sustainable and modern energy for all) with the
aim of improving village life in rural areas with
no electricity. With a modest budget of US$ 596
305, the project was able to provide solar energy
to twenty (20) villages with approximately 20
000 villagers being beneficiaries of the project
through, i) installations of indoor lighting in
schools, ii) access to running water provided
by solar water pumps, iii) installations of
streetlights/portable lanterns for villagers
which enhanced security, iv) installation of
cell-phone chargers in community centres for
enhanced mobile connectivity as well as serving
as a source of income for village associations.
However, the largest impact brought about
by the project was in support of communities
in developing effective and sustainable
management of solar equipment. The socio-
economic impact of access to running water
on the lives of rural women meant that they
could engage further in small-scale subsistence
farming to produce household foods to provide
for their immediate families. Whilst the project
was meant mainly for electrification purposes,
the utilization of solar energy equipment in rural
villages additionally provided a trickle down
of benefits not originally envisioned during
the project formulation processes. The project
indirectly increased primary reliance on clean
technology by the affected rural communities
boding well with SDG 7 whilst simultaneously
addressing Agenda 2063 priority area of Energy
which aims to ensure that the objective of access
for all Africans to clean and affordable energy/
electricity is achieved.
Malawi and Zambia
A pilot project on Eliminating Child Marriages
in Malawi and Zambia and offering Scholarships
to Child Marriage Survivors was approved for
implementation for the period April 2019 – June
2020. The project contributed to SDG 5 (Achieve
gender equality and empower all women and
girls). In that regard, the project addressed
aspiration six (6) of Agenda 2063 of an Africa
whose development is people driven, relying
on the potential offered by African People,
especially its Women and Youth, and caring
for Children. Furthermore, the project supports
African Union (AU) continental efforts to end
child marriages in Africa, as a step towards
the realization of the vision and goals set out
in the development blue-print of Agenda 2063
in addition to commitments made in the Africa
Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child
and the Maputo Protocol on Women’s Rights.
The project assists in repositioning young
women and girls who have been survivors
of child marriage to be at the centre of social
movements while leveraging the transformative
power of traditional institutions.  In this regard,
the project provided scholarships and supported
1417 young women and girls to re-enrol in school
after an early marriage, however, the long term
goals of the project includes, i) keeping girls in
school for longer and to delay early marriages,
ii) empowering girl-children to contribute to
the economic well-being of their countries in
the future, iii) an increase in women’s expected
earnings in the labour market and, iv) improving
gains in the well-being of populations of the
recipient countries of Malawi and Zambia. The
total cost of the project amounted to US$ 992 250
whilst the socio-economic impacts of the project
are immeasurable.

116
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Conclusion
It is quite obvious that the IBSA for poverty
and hunger alleviation is a unique and laudable
initiative of South-South Cooperation (SSC)
in addressing the developmental challenges
of the global South. The Fund as an initiative
of three developing countries demonstrates
that countries of the South are capable of
providing leadership and taking initiative in
addressing their own challenges and needs as a
collective in an inclusive manner without being
prescriptive, exploitative, or seeking to gain
leverage through development cooperation.
The IBSA Fund is purely driven by the desire
to create a more equitable and inclusive global
order by directly addressing issues of poverty,
underdevelopment and inequality. The IBSA
Fund becomes even more relevant today, as the
world is ravished by the Covid-19 pandemic
and where millions have been pushed further
into poverty and unemployment, the Fund is
a beacon of hope in building towards a better
world and creating a more equitable, inclusive
and humane world order.
References
United Nations Development Programme. 2000. IBSA
Fund Annual Report 2019. New York.
Agarwal M, Besada H and White L. 2010. Social
Changes and progress in IBSA. Routledge.
White, L. 2009. IBSA Six Years On: Cooperation in a
New Global Order. SAIIA.
Arkhangelskaya, A. 2010. India, Brazil and South
Africa Dialogue Forum: A Bridge between Three
Continents – Challenges, achievements and policy
options. Nordiska Afrikaininstitutet.
George, S. 2017. The Significance of the IBSA (India-
Brazil-South Africa) Alliance for the Global
Political Economy. George University.
United Nations. 2015. Transforming Our World: The
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Available at:
https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/
population/migration/generalassembly/docs/
globalcompact/A_RES_70_1_E.pdf

117
Key Recommendations
IBSA and Global Geo-Strategies
• Furthering the spirit of IBSA Joint
Ministerial Statement on Reform of the
UN Security Council, IBSA countries
should continue their efforts for seeking the
expansion of Security Council membership
to include representation from emerging
and developing countries of Asia, Latin
America and Africa, in both the permanent
and non-permanent categories.
• IBSA stands out as a global model of
true South-South Cooperation and has
adhered to a principled approach to
trilateral cooperation as well as global
governance. The IBSA Declaration on
South-South Cooperation of 2018 reiterates
the basic principles and suggests that
IBSA partnership is based amongst
equals which is guided by principles of
respect for national sovereignty; national
ownership and independence; equality;
non-conditionality; non-interference in
domestic affairs; and mutual benefit. It is
important that successive IBSA presidencies
uphold the true spirit of this declaration and
collaborate for wider acceptance of such
principles in global governance.
• Reinforcing the spirit of the 2011 Tshwane
Declaration towards “maintaining
international peace and security” and
“cooperation on preventing terrorism”, the
IBSA forum should convene a meeting on
peace and security, and conflict prevention
with a special focus on threats from terrorism
and violation of rights.
• Drawing upon the successful coordination
of their efforts in the UN Security Council
for ending violence in Syria, IBSA countries
should revive cooperation on international
terrorism. In the wake of the ongoing power
shift in Afghanistan, IBSA should ensure
that the Afghan territory is not used by
militia groups for launching terror attacks
against other countries. As in the past, IBSA
should continue to adopt its principled
approach to Responsibility to Protect (R2P)
for global peace and security.
• As a response to the pandemic, IMF allocated
US$650 billion for SDR, of which only $274
billion (42%) would go to emerging and
developing countries that are 80 percent of
IMF membership. The pandemic induced
loss of lives and livelihood has created
much deeper challenges for the developing
countries with significant loss of national
incomes, reversal of SDG gains, erosion
of social protection and widening of
economic and social divides. The capacities
of developing countries to put up stronger
financial cushions are severely curtailed and
magnanimous stimulus packages rolled out
in developed countries has widened global
inequities. Therefore, IBSA’s leadership in
global response to the health and economic

118
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
damages caused by the Covid-19 pandemic
is urgently called for.
• During the COVID-19 pandemic and post-
pandemic era, public health has emerged
as a ‘Global Public Good’. IBSA countries
should proactively pursue their cooperation
in pushing for the access to technologies
by innovative means as well as in ensuring
the supply chain resilience of the medical
products such as medicines, vaccines,
diagnostic kits, etc. by forging stronger
collaboration in the domain of domestic
manufacturing, entrepreneurship, and
capacity building.
• The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a huge
health and economic toll in IBSA member
countries. Global vaccine distribution
to fight the Covid-19 pandemic remains
highly skewed and only a few developing
countries have created self-reliance on
vaccine manufacturing capacities. It is
important that all the three IBSA countries
put their weight behind the WTO TRIPS
waiver proposal being jointly being pursued
by India and South Africa.
• In the aftermath of the pandemic and
inspired by the IBSA Joint Declaration on
South-South Cooperation IBSA should
focus on developing a joint narrative on
South-South Cooperation and development
towards a fair and equitable world.
Recalling the commitments and the means
of implementation for the development
agenda, IBSA should continue to stress on
the centrality of achievement of the SDGs
and the Rio principle of Common but
Differentiated Responsibilities (CBDR) and
respective capabilities.
• In that direction IBSA should continue to
press for the development commitment
enshrined in the 2008 Doha Declaration
and of the Monterrey Consensus of 2002
of providing 0.7 percent GNI as ODA by
developed countries and the measures
contained in the Addis Ababa Action
Agenda for making finance available for
achieving 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). The ODA
flows have severely reversed and are not
commensurate with the need of global
recovery from the pandemic.
• The maritime cooperation among IBSA
countries has assumed renewed significance
amidst emerging shifts in the global
order. IBSA has been strongly devoted to
cooperation in this area through the joint
Multi-National Maritime Exercise called
IBSAMAR and such cooperation can be
further deepened to enhance capacities in
the most advanced technology domains to
prepare for future threats and consolidate
IBSA’s stake in promoting global peace
and security in a multi-polar world order
ushering legitimate preeminence of IBSA.
• The mounting global challenges be it
pandemic control, climate change, or
equitable social development all need
meaningful Science, Technology and
Innovation (STI) solutions backed by access.
Under the ongoing efforts on the Technology
Facilitation Mechanism (TFM) of the
Agenda 2030 originally supported by India
and Brazil, the UN has already launched the
first phase of the Global Pilot Programme
on Science, Technology and Innovation for
SDGs Roadmaps initially with five pilot
countries including India. IBSA should
enhance their dialogue and cooperation on
similar initiatives to strengthen technology
transfer and facilitation globally to benefit
developing countries.
• In order to strengthen the means of
implementation of the SDGs, IBSA should
draw upon its own development experiences
as well as stellar leadership on development
cooperation to promote tracks under global
governance mechanisms to institutionalise
robust data systems and enhanced use of
data for development that are insulated
from external influences and minimises
scope for manipulations.

119
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
Triangular Cooperation in IBSA
Trade
• IBSA’s rise as an axis of South-South
Cooperation requires it to have a strong
regional economic caucus. Towards this end,
IBSA has to deepen its internal coordination
and significantly boost the intra-IBSA
trade profile. The progressive increase in
the Intra-Regional Trade (IRT) through
existing institutional mechanisms including
Preferential Trade Agreements (PTAs),
Bilateral Investment Agreements, etc., may
be strengthened to improve the efficiency of
the regional caucus as envisaged in the 2006
IBSA Forum declaration.
• Regional cooperation among IBSA countries
in trade and investment should be intensified,
with further support for other developing
countries. Regional trade in IBSA focus may
look into employment generation in the
trade sector by engaging in certain vibrant
sectors where the group has strong intra-
industry trade and competitiveness among
member countries. Bilateral tariff and non-
tariff barrier (NTB) management through
existing arrangements may be made
comprehensive with mutual consultation to
benefit regional members. There are certain
high potential sectors, which are covered
under high protection in the region such as
automobiles.
• IBSA should strengthen its cooperation in
initiating joint projects in trade facilitation
measures and infrastructure. Sectors such
as wood pulp, plastics, base metals, etc.
may be considered to liberalise trilaterally
or bilaterally among the member nations.
Apart from traditional major sectors, new
major sectors are also emerging. These
sectors may be promoted to bolster inflows
of trade within the region. Gradual sectoral
liberalisation among members through
existing Agreements may help the region in
‘catching-up’ fast with the world economy.
• There is a strong global expectation from
IBSA to play an important role in the
rebounding of the global economy post-
pandemic. It may start with expanding
intra-regional trade among IBSA member
countries through fresh unilateral/regional
trade arrangements and consequent
concessions and can expand it to other
countries. With huge potential, trade in
services should form an essential component
of the trade negotiations and initiatives in
this area. Important trade sectors of the
region with the world are similar to the
sectors important for intra-regional trade
of the region.
• Scientific institutions in member countries
may be associated with the manufacturers
to develop new products for production,
consumption and trade. Product quality
is important for the domestic and global
markets for trade. Cooperation for product
quality development may be considered
through joint projects.
IBSA and Global Trade Governance
• In the spirit of the IBSA Joint Statement
on the Reform of the Multilateral System,
it is important that the process of WTO
reform must keep development at its
core, promote inclusiveness and non-
discrimination, build trust and address the
inequalities and asymmetries in existing
agreements. It should take into account
the diversity of interests and concerns
of the whole Membership, including
developing Members, in particular LDCs.
IBSA countries recognise the central role
played by the WTO in promoting the
interests of developing countries on issues
such as agriculture.
• The three countries are keen that the
deadlock regarding the appointments to
the WTO Appellate Body ends and the
selection process is launched so that the
Dispute Settlement Body can take a decision
to appoint six new Appellate Body members
as soon as possible.

120
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
• To further trade and investment
cooperation, IBSA should collaborate on
outstanding trade governance issues and
initiate dialogue in areas with strong trade,
finance and technology convergence like
e-commerce, investment facilitation etc.
towards trust building, knowledge sharing,
and entrepreneurship promotion..
Multilateral Governance Reforms
• The three IBSA countries should keep on
pursuing their cooperation on the matters
related to climate change in terms of
reiterating their stand on the need for the
developed countries to fulfill their long-
pending commitments related to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) principles of equity and
Common but Differentiated Responsibilities
and Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC) in
terms of technology transfer, funding and
providing capacity building support to the
developing countries, particularly with
reference to the upcoming COP26 of the
UNFCCC.
• Deeper IBSA cooperation in various areas
such as advancing low or zero emission
energy solutions such as renewable (solar,
wind), hydrogen, bioenergy and biofuels
can be further explored. The International
Solar Alliance (ISA), established during
the COP 21 of UNFCCC, can play a key
role in promoting clean energy through
decentralised and off-grid solar power. This
mechanism should be leveraged by the IBSA
countries towards climate-friendly clean
energy transition.
• For effective pandemic response and to
prepare WHO for future pandemics, there
is a need for WHO to be more inclusive,
responsive and effective. Towards pushing
for the WHO reforms, the IBSA countries
need to work together and provide the
necessary leadership to the South and G77
• Being biodiversity-rich countries, the three
IBSA countries should strive towards
developing a common stance on the issue
of ensuring a fair and equitable Access and
Benefit Sharing (ABS) mechanism within
the CBD framework in light of the recent
technological advancements such as Digital
Sequence Information (DSI). IBSA countries
should cooperate in pushing for an effective
monitoring mechanism for dealing with
the issues of utilization, provenance and
traceability of the use of DSI.
• Furthermore, the IBSA countries should
keep pushing for the review of Article
27. 3 (b). To check the misappropriation
and bio-piracy, and to ensure traceability,
there is a need to continue IBSA countries’
coordination and cooperation towards
developing a consensus for the ‘Common
Mandatory Disclosure Requirement’
regarding genetic resources and associated
traditional knowledge at the WTO TRIPS
Council and at WIPO IGC.
Thrust on Inclusive Socio-Economic
Development Paradigm in IBSA
• In line with the recommendations of the
recently concluded seventh IBSA Academic
Forum, there is a strong need to strengthen
intra-IBSA cooperation for inclusive social
development and furthering progress on
SDGs. IBSA should support enhanced STI
cooperation for providing a range of public
goods in the areas of vaccination, medicines,
telemedicine, research on neglected diseases,
biodiversity conservation, etc.
• IBSA can build cooperation in the areas of
vaccine research, supply chain management,
procurement of raw materials, genome
sequencing and data sharing to aid other
developing countries in fighting against
the pandemic. There is immense scope
to leverage digital and as well as other
STI applications for tackling common
challenges including the SDGs. India can
lead the efforts in sharing know-how for
digital platforms, e.g. the Co-WIN platform.
• There is tremendous scope to enhance

121
Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
cooperation in the field of digital health
strategies as envisaged in Brazil and India
in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM)
of India is a historic initiative of India to
bring revolutionary transformation in
providing healthcare facilities that can be a
very important tool for several developing
countries.
•  The IBSA countries are committed to
promoting inclusive and quality education
for all children by 2030 and there is
enough scope for academic research and
collaboration in a number of new areas.
IBSA should promote greater student and
faculty exchange and dual/triple degrees
in selected programmes.
• The ongoing IBSA Fellowship programme
can be further expanded to promote
greater people-to-people cooperation and
to generate quality research outcomes that
can strengthen IBSA cooperation in various
sectors.
• There is scope to enhance cooperation
in the field of technical and vocational
education and training (TVET) and higher
education through best practices available
and exchange of knowledge and expertise.
The role of digital technologies is critical
for achieving high “quality and easily
accessible education” among IBSA countries
for promoting training, education, and skill
development.
• The rapid rise of digitalization offers both
opportunities and challenges for developing
countries and IBSA countries can work
together to reap the benefits of digitalization
for their people. A common institutional
architecture for digital development can be
consolidated for delivering digital public
goods (DPGs).
• The people-centric digital development
experiences in IBSA can be shared for
advancing SDGs and also aiding the
development and delivery of services in
other countries. Technology needs to be
effectively leveraged for fostering equity
and inclusion and to enhance the resilience
among vulnerable sections of society.
•  With the increasing deployment of digital
technologies, there is an immense scope for
strengthening the Digital Economy in the
respective IBSA countries. The rapid rise of
digital technologies has been transforming
social and economic activities and need
to be leveraged for promoting financial
inclusion.
• Besides delivering digital public goods
for development, it is imperative for IBSA
countries to forge a ‘digital collective’ for
safeguarding cyberspace and articulating
a Southern perspective on evolving norms
and standards on cyber-security.
• Further, it is also imperative for IBSA
countries to adopt new policies for
entrepreneurial skills for the emerging
workforce. The role of higher educational
institutes in delivering the right kind of skills
and technology for the future generations is
the need of the hour to harness the benefits
of 4
th Industrial Revolution.
• IBSA should strengthen people-to-people
mechanisms for exchange of ideas and
cooperation on a wide range of cross-cutting
socio-economic issues. The P2P initiatives
should focus on strengthening cooperation
on the empowerment of women and girls
towards promoting gender-responsive
growth and equality.
The India, Brazil & South Africa
Facility for Poverty and Hunger
Alleviation	(IBSA	Fund):	Reflections
and New Vision
• The IBSA Fund’s focus on enhancing
resilience against a host of societal and
environmental challenges is also of great
essence and the light of developmental
priorities in the post-COVID scenario, the
IBSA Fund should devote more focus on
providing healthcare goods and services.

122
• The growing developmental priorities
require that IBSA Fund adopts innovative
financing strategies and places a strong
emphasis on enhancing the quality of
results across project portfolios. Improving
the visibility of the development impact of
IBSA Fund projects across the SDGs is vital
towards strengthening the spirit of SSC and
fostering more development partnerships in
the Global South.
• The development agencies of IBSA countries
such as the Brazilian Cooperation Agency
(ABC), Brazil, Development Partnership
Administration (DPA), India and South
African Development Partnership Agency
(SADPA) should initiate dialogue on a range
of cooperation issues on mutual learnings
including on management of the IBSA Fund.
Further they can enter into collaborations
with the UN agencies while retaining their
independence to deliver localised solutions
within SDG frameworks.
• Given the success of the fund’s activities, it is
only propitious that IBSA members consider
increasing their annual contributions to the
fund. It has already been recommended
that the IBSA Fund builds synergies with
other instruments like the African Union
Development Agency-NEPAD (New
Partnership for Africa’s Development
)
which is working towards similar goals
and objectives.
• The IBSA Fund’s focus on a broad range of
objectives across a large number of countries
makes it imperative to undertake thorough
monitoring and evaluation, evidence
collection and learning at various stages of
project conception, and implementation.
It is thus essential that IBSA Fund projects
entail effective monitoring, evaluation and
learning and the lessons learnt from projects
are shared across other trust funds and
their implementation. IBSA should evolve
its methodologies to evaluate the impact of
IBSA Fund projects with further scope for
third-party assessments. The IBSA Fund
can build cooperation and linkages with
research institutions and think-tanks to
promote evidence-based research on its
activities.

Trinity of the South: Democracies for Development
“The report is clear and timely, because the important work of this “trinity” often
gets overshadowed by the focus on BRICS and/or G20 in international forms of
reportage. Each chapter is well-delineated and provides up-to-date information’”
Professor Ari Sitas
National Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences (NIHSS)
South Africa
“The report is very comprehensive and is an important contribution to
reinvigorating and strengthening IBSA.”
Professor Elizabeth Sidiropoulos
Chief Executive, South African Institute of International Affairs (SAIIA)
South Africa
“This is an excellent and timely report. It will certainly make a valuable contribution
and hopefully revive broader interest in the continued work of IBSA.”
Dr Philani Mthembu
Executive Director, Institute for Global Dialogue (IGD)
South Africa
“This report sets the bar high and it would be important to carry forward IBSA
with matching spirit!”
Professor Ivan Oliveira
Director of International Studies
Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada (IPEA)
Brazil