seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/annual_performance_plan_2022_2023.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/annual_performance_plan_2022_2023.pdf
title: annual_performance_plan_2022_2023.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN 2022 – 2023

Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
OR Tambo Building
Private Bag X152, Pretoria, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084, Republic of South Africa

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
4
I
hereby present the Annual Performance Plan (APP) of the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) for the year 2022/23.
This APP is reflective of the priorities in the 2020 – 2025 Strategic Plan. It consolidates the
gains, remedies the deficiencies of our previous performance and sets out what needs to be
done to achieve the goals included in the Strategic Plan.
Unfortunately, as we start this new financial year, the economic challenges we face as a
result of the impact of the two-year long global COVID-19 pandemic, persist. Thousands of
South Africans have died from the virus, and our economy, as is the case globally, has been
put under severe strain. Now, more than ever, South Africa has to grapple with the triple
challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality.
Following the directive given by the President during his State of the Nation Address (SoNA)
on 10 February 2022 on the need to grow the economy, and in light of the present situation
of deep poverty, unemployment and inequality in the country, aggravated by the COVID-19
pandemic, DIRCO will continue with its focus on economic diplomacy in support of the
President’s initiatives. This work will build on the foundation of the Economic Reconstruction
and Recovery Plan (ERRP), which remains the common programme to rebuild the economy.
Prior to the President’s SoNA, our missions abroad had focussed on showcasing the many
investment opportunities available in various sectors of our society, in order to contribute to
growing the economy. This work will continue this year.
During South Africa’s Chairship of the African Union, President Cyril Ramaphosa played
a critical role in securing much-needed vaccines for Africa. In his SoNA, the President
emphasised that South Africa would increase its efforts to develop Africa’s ability to
manufacture vaccines and we look forward to the support of our missions, especially in
Africa, to make this a reality.
As we start the new financial year, our work will be impacted by various challenges that exist
in the international environment, such as the long-term impact of COVID-19 on the welfare
and financial well-being of the world, an increasing trend towards unilateralism, protectionism,
nationalism, populism and an inward-looking focus on countries’ domestic priorities. Strong
tendencies to pursue national interests and the fragmentation of global decision-making are
emerging.
FOREWORD BY THE MINISTER OF
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND
COOPERATION

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
5
Dr GNM Pandor, MP
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Executive Authority
Date: 17 March 2022
DIRCO will, therefore, be required to engage strategically in this uncertain international
environment and use its strong bilateral footprint and respected multilateral presence to
continue to advance the interests and values of South Africa, Africa and the Global South.
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa's foreign policy.
South Africa's multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance its national
interest and safeguard its national positions, as well as advance the development priorities of
developing countries and promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system, as identified
in Priority Seven of the Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF).
South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among countries and groupings of
the South to develop common positions on political, economic, social and human rights
issues as an effective response in addressing the historic marginalisation of these countries.
Groupings of the South share the need to restructure the global political, economic and
financial architecture to be more balanced, representative, inclusive and equitable, as well
as to ensure that the international system rests on the important pillars of multilateralism and
international law.
In the execution of its foreign policy, South Africa has continued to be a principled exponent
of advancing the African Agenda and contributing to the maintenance of global peace and
security, as well as building a better world. South Africa’s national interest is based on
promoting the well-being, socio-economic development and upliftment of her people, and
advancing the prosperity of the region and the continent within a better world.
As Africa remains central to South Africa’s foreign policy, it is, therefore, important that during
2022/23 there should be continuation of the focus areas identified for 2020 – 2025, namely:
a. A united and politically cohesive continent that works towards shared prosperity and
sustainable development.
b. Enhanced regional integration with increased and balanced trade within the Southern
African Development Community and on the continent by supporting the commencement
of trading under the African Continental Free Trade Area. South African companies are
poised to play a key role in taking up the opportunities that this presents for preferential
access to other African markets. The Free Trade agreement is about Africa taking charge
of its destiny and growing its economies faster.
c. Promoting peace, security and stability on the continent.
d. Capitalising on South Africa’s membership and engagements in various international
fora to advance the African Agenda.
DIRCO has a dynamic role to play in the improvement of the lives of South Africans by
utilising its bilateral relations and global footprint effectively and profitably. This includes
identifying strategic opportunities for skills and knowledge development, and targeted
investments and growing markets for South Africa’s products and services, in an integrated
and inclusive manner. DIRCO's international network of missions is a strategic asset that is
being leveraged to realise maximum return on the investment it represents for the people of
South Africa.
The execution of our foreign policy is predicated on the achievement and pursuit of our
national priorities in a manner that contributes positively to the well-being of people through
promoting justice, peace and sustainable development in the region, the continent and the
world.
The department, guided by the seven MTSF strategic priorities, will continue to work with
all relevant government departments towards a more focussed execution of South Africa’s
foreign policy. DIRCO will also, as part of the whole-of-government approach, work towards
contributing towards government’s domestic policies for economic growth as expressed in
the ERRP and SoNA. In this manner, DIRCO will be able to increasingly contribute, in a more
direct and concrete manner, to inclusive economic growth and a capable and ethical state.
The department is working to strengthen the institutional capacities to enhance its abilities to
implement its identified strategic objectives for the next five years. This work includes aligning
the structure of the organisation to better implement its strategic plan and the priorities of
the MTSF 2019 – 2024, improving financial management to ensure good stewardship of its
allocated resources, in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Management Act,
1999 (Act 1 of 1999), improved people management and the strategic utilisation of digital
technology to enable efficient delivery of the department's mandate in a smart and secure
manner.
Due to the shortfall on the Compensation of Employees (CoE) budget, vacancies cannot
be filled, which may impact negatively on service delivery and the achievement of the
department's mandate. In order to mitigate the associated risks on the shortfall of the CoE,
the department will focus on upskilling and reskilling its human resources. In addition,
responding to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department
has been engaging in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on
a non-residential basis, in a bid to contain costs.
Finally, many DIRCO staff members have sadly passed away from COVID-19-related
complications. We extend our condolences to their families as we do to all South Africans
who have lost loved ones during this period. We all hope that South Africa is over the worst
as far as the pandemic is concerned and that we can soon enter a more “normal” way of
conducting business.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
6
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation’s (DIRCO) overview and vision

South Africa’s foreign policy is guided by the Constitution and its founding principles. Foreign
policy is an important tool that contributes to the realisation of the National Development
Plan (NDP): Vision 2030 through the Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF).
On the basis of our identity as an African country, South Africa’s foreign policy is driven by
a clear and critical understanding of our national, regional and continental priorities in a
multipolar world where the geo-strategic politics of the continent are becoming increasingly
central to global political and economic competition for natural resources and market share.
DIRCO, being the lead department in pursuit of South Africa’s foreign policy objectives,
needs to manage and coordinate the other domestic role-players, contributing, directly or
indirectly, to the achievement thereof.
The strategic focus of DIRCO is guided by the NDP: Vision 2030, as unpacked in the MTSF
2019 – 2024, which is in line with the African Union's (AU) Agenda 2063, the Southern
African Development Community’s Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan and
the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (SDGs) Agenda. The
department is further guided by the policy directives of South Africa's political principals,
especially the President's State of the Nation Address (SoNA).
Reflection on 2021/22
During 2021/22, South Africa, like most of the world, was still affected by the COVID-19
pandemic. The pandemic has had a severe impact on most socio-economic activities globally.
There has been a reduction in global trade, including manufacturing and transportation;
an increase in unemployment; devastation of the tourism, hospitality, entertainment and
sporting industries; and education on all levels have been widely disrupted.
FOREWORD BY THE ACTING
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS AND COOPERATION

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
7
This has led to adaptations, including the utilisation of technology, although the extent
thereof has depended on the access to both equipment and coverage. DIRCO made the
most of these new ways of conducting its international business, in order to achieve the
objectives as set out in the strategic and annual performance plans.
It has been estimated that the pandemic has pushed back the attainment of the 2030
SDGs for less developed economies by a decade. Poverty and inequality have been further
exacerbated, especially by a diminution of opportunities because of travel and educational
restrictions.
Priorities for 2022/23
Unfortunately, as we start this new financial year, the economic challenges we face, as a
result of the impact of the two-year long global COVID-19 pandemic, persist. Thousands of
South Africans have died from the virus and our economy, like that of the global economy,
has been put under severe strain. Now, more than ever, South Africa has to grapple with
the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality.
In his 2022 SoNA, delivered on 10 February 2022, President Cyril Ramaphosa set the
strategic course for the country for 2022/23. On that occasion, he emphasised the need
to grow the economy, in light of the present situation of deep poverty, unemployment and
inequality in the country, aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
DIRCO will, therefore, during 2022/23, continue with its focus on economic diplomacy in
support of the President’s initiatives. This work will build on the foundation of the Economic
Reconstruction and Recovery Plan (ERRP), which remains the common programme to
rebuild the economy.
Having recognised the focus of the NDP, MTSF and South Africa's foreign policy objectives,
DIRCO has to contend with an environment that is interlinked with regional, continental
and global developments, fluctuations and disruptions. South Africa's foreign policy is
implemented within a highly dynamic and challenging global environment, which at times
is unpredictable.
Natural disasters, such as severe drought and flooding, are on a global scale and will have
long-term socio-economic and security implications. Climate change is intensifying and will
cause global disruptions in all spheres with increasing severity.
Furthermore, the destabilisation of post-war multilateralism, increasing unilateralism,
protectionism, nationalism, populism, an inward-looking focus on countries’ domestic
priorities, the fragmentation of global decision-making and other global trends, require
DIRCO to critically reflect on its successes and failures, both internally and externally, to
inform the 2022/23 planning priorities in the context of the 2020 – 2025 strategic priorities
the department had identified in October 2019.
Africa remains at the centre of South Africa’s foreign policy trajectory. Cognisant of the
intrinsic link between South Africa’s national interest and Africa’s stability, unity and
prosperity, the country has placed the advancement of the African Agenda at the centre of
its foreign policy and has had considerable success in promoting the interests of Africa in
different fora.
South Africa remains a relevant and significant player in issues relating to the regional
agenda. This role is played both through bilateral and multilateral platforms.
The ability to contribute to humanitarian relief efforts and peace and mediation initiatives,
places the country in a strategic position of influence.
During South Africa’s Chairship of the AU, for example, President Ramaphosa played a
critical role in securing much-needed vaccines for Africa. In his 2022 SoNA, the President
emphasised that South Africa would increase its efforts to develop Africa’s ability to
manufacture vaccines and we look forward to the support of our missions, especially in
Africa, to make this a reality.
During 2022/23, DIRCO will continue to work towards contributing to the improvement of
the lives of all South Africans through the promotion of increased inward tourism, trade
and investment opportunities from our bilateral partners, in line with the ERRP. As South
Africa’s foreign policy implementation is guided and shaped by its national interest, we will
continue to utilise high-level bilateral meetings to advance our wide-ranging objectives in
these specific fields.
DIRCO's international network of missions is a strategic asset that is being leveraged to
realise maximum return on the investment it represents for the people of South Africa.
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa's foreign policy. South Africa's multilateral
engagements are premised on the need to advance its national interest and safeguard its
national positions, as well as enhance the development priorities of developing countries
and promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system, as identified in Priority Seven
of the MTSF. South Africa will continue to advocate for the reform of global governance
institutions, as well as promote participation in selected multilateral fora outside the UN
system as a force multiplier for the overall strengthening of multilateralism.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
8
Alignment of priorities for 2022/23 with the strategic objectives 2020 – 2025
Through continued attention to the focus areas for 2020 –2025 and the priorities for
2022/23, the department will continue to deliver on the strategic objectives of DIRCO for
the period 2020 – 2024, namely:
a. protect and promote South African national interests and values through bilateral and
multilateral interactions
b. conduct and coordinate South Africa’s international relations and promote its foreign policy
objectives
c. monitor international developments and advise government on foreign policy and related
domestic matter;
d. contribute to the formulation of international law and enhance respect for its provisions
e. promote multilateralism to secure a rules-based international system
f. maintain a modern and effective department driven to pursue excellence and provide a
world-class and uniquely South African service.
Finally, I would like to convey my heartfelt condolences to those colleagues in the department
who have lost loved ones during the past year due to COVID-19-related complications.
As the Acting Accounting Officer, I hereby undertake to ensure appropriate governance,
systems and processes to implement the Annual Performance Plan.

Regarding South-South cooperation, South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation
among countries and groupings of the South to develop common positions on political,
economic, social and human rights issues as an effective response in addressing the
historic marginalisation of these countries.
As the only African country in the G20 and Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
(BRICS), as well as being one of the top 10 strategic partners of the European Union, South
Africa will continue placing the African continent and the Global South on the agenda of
BRICS to synchronise policies, such as Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development.
DIRCO, as a national department, is committed to sound corporate governance and has
developed various internal control mechanisms to strengthen corporate governance.
Internally, there are various management structures and committees in place with terms of
reference that meet on a regular basis. These management structures serve as mechanisms
to improve corporate governance and decision-making and enhance communication.
During 2022/23, and as the previously restrictive COVID-19 protocols are being relaxed, the
department will continue to deliver a world-class protocol service to the President, Deputy
President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International Relations and Cooperation, as
well as other Cabinet Ministers. It will also continue to provide an advisory service to all
spheres of government on all matters related to protocol.
Despite the above, it should be noted that the Annual Performance Plan for 2022/23 is
being delivered in an environment that is still characterised by fiscal constraints, recurring
qualified audit outcomes and an outdated information and communications technology
(ICT) infrastructure. I am pleased to confirm that the ageing ICT infrastructure is currently
in the process of being upgraded following the approval of the Digital Strategy.
In response to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department
engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on a non-
residential basis, in a bid to contain costs.
This process resulted in the closure of several missions.  Furthermore, the department
is in the process of developing identified systems to improve operations’ efficiency and
effectiveness in automating business processes.

I also wish to inform that the department has been engaging in a process of organisational
renewal as a tool to assist the organisation to achieve its identified strategic objectives
for the next five years. This has required of the department to review and finalise its
organisational structure to align it with its Strategic Plan and the priorities of the MTSF
2019 – 2024.
Ambassador NN Losi
Acting Director-General of the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation
Accounting Officer
Date: 17 March 2022

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
9
C. OFFICIAL SIGN-OFF
DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL SIGNATURE DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL SIGNATURE
Ambassador NN Ntshinga
Deputy Director-General
Africa
Ambassador NN Ntshinga
Acting Deputy Director-General
Global Governance and Continental
Agenda
Ms Sindiswa Mququ
Acting Deputy Director-General
Asia and Middle East
Mr TC Monyela
Deputy Director-General
Public Diplomacy
Mr TC Monyela
Acting Deputy Director-General
Corporate Management
Ambassador NN Losi
Chief of State Protocol and Consular
Services
Ambassador M Dlomo
Acting Deputy Director-General
Diplomatic Training, Research and
Development
Ambassador M Dlomo
Deputy Director-General
Americas and Europe
NAME SIGNATURE NAME SIGNATURE
Ms H Bhengu
Acting Chief Financial Officer
Ambassador NN Losi
Acting Director-General
Ms MC Lobe
Head Official responsible for Planning:
Acting Chief Operations Officer
Approved by:
Dr GNM Pandor
Executive Authority
It is hereby certified that this Annual Performance Plan:
• was developed by the m anagement of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) under the guidance of the Minister
• takes into account all th e relevant policies, legislation and other mandates for which DIRCO is responsible
• accurate ly reflects the impact, outcomes and outputs, which DIRCO will endeavour to achieve over the period: 2022 – 2023.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
10
D. CONTENTS
PART A: OUR MANDATE
PART C: MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE
PART B: STRATEGIC FOCUS
1. Updates to the relevant legislative and policy mandat es 14
2. Updates to institutional  policies and strategies 15
3. Updates to relevant court rulings 15
4. Updated situational ana lysis
4.1 External environment analysis 18
4.2 Internal environment analysis 26
5. Institutio nal programme performance information 30
Programme 1 30
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 31
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 35
• Resource consideration 37

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
11
TIDs 78
10. Glossary and acronyms 101
11. Annexure 110
PART D: TECHNICAL INDICATOR DESCRIPTION (TID)
Programme 2 40
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 41
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 47
• Resource consideration 48
Programme 3 50
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 51
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 57
• Resource consideration 58
Programme 4 60
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 61
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 66
• Resource consideration 67
Programme 5 68
• Outcomes, outputs, performance indicators and target 69
• Explanation of planned performance over the medium-term planning period 69
• Resource consideration 70
6. Updated key risks 72
7. Public e ntities 74
8. Infrastructure projects 74
9. Public-p rivate partnerships 75

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
12
PART A: OUR MANDATE

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
14
1.      U PDATES TO THE RELEVANT LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY
MANDATE
1.1        Constitutional mandate
1.1.1 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 is the supreme law of the
Republic and all law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid. The President is ultimately
responsible for South Africa’s foreign policy and it is the President’s prerogative to
appoint heads of South Africa’s diplomatic missions, receive foreign heads of diplomatic
missions, conduct inter-state relations and enter into international agreements.
1.1.2 The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation (Minister), in accordance with
her Cabinet portfolio responsibilities, is entrusted with the formulation, promotion and
execution of South Africa’s foreign policy. The Minister assumes overall responsibility
for all aspects of South Africa’s international relations in consultation with the President.
In practice, the Minister consults the Cabinet and individual Cabinet ministers on
aspects of importance, as well as on cross-cutting issues that have a bearing on the
programmes of other ministries and departments.
1.1.3 Oversight and accountability in the formulation and conduct of South Africa’s foreign
policy are vested in the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on International Relations
and Cooperation.
1.2        Legislative mandates
1.2.1 The Foreign States Immunities Act, 1981 (Act 87 of 1981): This Act regulates the extent
of the immunity of foreign states from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic and
provides for matters connected therewith.
1.2.2 The Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, 2001 (Act 37 of 2001): The Act provides
for the immunities and privileges of diplomatic missions and consular posts and their
members, of heads of states, special envoys and certain representatives of the United
Nations and its specialised agencies, and other international organisations and of
certain other persons. Provision is also made for immunities and privileges pertaining
to international conferences and meetings. It enacts into law certain conventions and
provides for matters connected therewith.
1.2.3 The African Renaissance and International Cooperation Fund Act, 2001 (Act 51 of
2001): The Act establishes an African Renaissance and International Cooperation
Fund (ARF) to enhance cooperation between the Republic and other countries, in
particular African countries, through the promotion of democracy, good governance,
the prevention and resolution of conflict, socio-economic development and integration,
humanitarian assistance and human resource development.
1.2.4 International agreements (multilateral and bilateral): These include international
agreements concluded by the Republic of South Africa in terms of sections 231(2) and
231(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996.
1.2.5    President Cyril Ramaphosa signed into law the Foreign Service Act (FSA), Act 26 of
2019, which was gazetted on 4 June 2020. The Act provides for the administration,
accountability and functioning of a professional foreign service of the Republic of
South Africa that will be managed by the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO). The legislation governs the operational requirements that are
suitable and supportive of the operations of the Foreign Service in a global environment.
The Foreign Service is tasked with promoting and advancing South Africa’s international
relations and cooperation by representing the Republic in an effective, coherent and
comprehensive manner abroad. The regulations are currently being drafted in order for
the FSA 2019 to be operationalised and for it to come into force.
1.3 P olicy mandates
1.3.1 The Measures & Guidelines for Enhanced Coordination of South Africa’s International
Engagements and its annexures, approved by Cabinet in 2009, establish more effective
measures and mechanisms to coordinate the conduct of international relations and the
implementation of South Africa’s foreign policy.
1.3.2 The National Information Security Policy, approved by Cabinet in 1996, provides the
minimum standards for security.
1.3.3 The White Paper on Foreign Policy , approved by Cabinet in 2011, assesses South
Africa’s foreign policy against the rising expectations of the critical role of foreign policy
to meet domestic priorities.
1.3.4 Foreign Service Dispensation (FSD) is implemented in terms of the provisions of
Section 3(3) (c) of the Public Service Act, 1994 (Act 103 of 1994), as amended, and is
applicable to designated employees who serve in a foreign country at a South African
mission abroad and fall within the scope of the Public Service Coordinating Bargaining
Council. The FSD consists mainly of two measures, namely remunerative measures
(South Africa) and compensatory measures and other foreign-service benefits at the
missions.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
15
1.3.5 The Gender Responsive Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring, Evaluation and Auditing
Framework, approved by Cabinet in 2018, provides for comprehensive instruments
for strengthening the mainstreaming of gender perspectives within the planning and
budgeting processes.
2.          UPDATES TO INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES
AND STRATEGIES
 The revival of the process on the Partnership Fund for Development Bill
 The Partnership Fund for Development Bill aimed at repealing the African Renaissance
and International Cooperation Fund Act (51 of 2000) will be revived. DIRCO continues
to support South Africa’s outgoing development cooperation policy by providing funding
and technical support for development initiatives.
3. U PDATES TO RELEVANT COURT RULINGS
 In matters of the Supreme Court:
 The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation and two others v Simeka
Group (Pty) Ltd and four others
 The application was launched by the Minister on 10 October 2018 to have the tender
for the appointment of a development partner in New York, awarded to Simeka Group
(Pty) and others, reviewed and set aside (including the Project Preparation Agreement).
It was decided against the Minister in April 2021. The Minister's application for leave to
appeal was heard on 10 May 2021 and judgment was given in favour of the Minister
for appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). The appeal was lodged with the
SCA and the date of the hearing is still to be determined. The date is subject to the
finalisation of the record, the lodging of heads and the Rule 10A Practice Note, the
lodging of the respondents (in the appeal) heads, and an allocation of judges and a
date by the SCA. This process in ongoing.
 Elliot Mobility (Pty) Ltd and New Thando Elliot Mobility (Pty) Ltd Joint Venture
(NTEM) v Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
 DIRCO brought an application in the High Court to have the arbitration award handed
down in NTEM’s favour set aside. Although settlement discussions took place in
advance of the hearing, NTEM rejected the department's initial offer of settlement and
withdrew from the discussions when it became clear that the parties to the joint venture
had divergent views on what would constitute a fair outcome. The hearing of the review
application therefore proceeded on 17 and 18 June 2021 and judgment is awaited.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
16
PART B: OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
17

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
18
PART B: OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS
The strategic focus of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
is guided by the National Development Plan (NDP): Vision 2030. This has been strategically
unpacked in the Medium-Term Strategic Framework (MTSF) 2019 – 2024 which identifies
seven priorities. DIRCO will contribute to all seven MTSF priorities, with a particular focus
on priority seven, namely, "A Better Africa and World". This is aligned to the African Union's
(AU) Agenda 2063, the SADC Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan (RISDP) and
the United Nation's (UN) Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (SDGs) Agenda. Further
strategic focus for the department is guided by the policy directives of South Africa's political
principals, especially the key objectives outlined through the President's State of the Nation
(SoNA) Address.
4.  U PDATED SITUATIONAL ANALYSIS
South Africa's foreign policy vision is to achieve an African continent that is peaceful,
democratic, non-racial, non-sexist, united and prosperous and which contributes to a world
that is just and equitable. However, the successful implementation of foreign policy is directly
impacted by developments in the global environment, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
4.1 E xternal environment analysis
During 2021/22, South Africa, like most of the world, was still affected by the COVID-19
pandemic. The pandemic has had a severe impact on most socio-economic activities globally.
There has been a reduction in global trade, including manufacturing and transportation, an
increase in unemployment, devastation of the tourism, hospitality, entertainment and sporting
industries, and education on all levels has been widely disrupted.
This has led to adaptations including the utilisation of technology, although the extent thereof
has depended on the access of both equipment and coverage.
It has been estimated that the pandemic has pushed back the attainment of the 2030
SDGs for less developed economies by a decade. Poverty and inequality have been further
exacerbated, especially by a diminution of opportunities because of travel and educational
restrictions.
While the COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the need for greater international cooperation
to address global challenges, especially for developing countries, the economic and social
impact of the pandemic has constrained the ability of many governments to make greater
financial commitments to areas such as peacekeeping and developmental issues, given that
domestic recovery plans take priority. This could impact future funding for peacekeeping on
the continent and also on support for the AU and UN goals, such as Agenda 2063 and the
SDGs.
Economic prospects for 2022
The COVID-19 pandemic has clearly resulted in diminished global growth. Economic growth
is variable across the globe, with post-COVID recovery expected to be stronger in developed
economies, but not in emerging economies. It is evident that oil prices have been volatile and
that global supply chains have become more complex and complicated due to COVID-19.
It is expected that global growth, trade and investment will further stabilise during 2022. It
is clear that COVID-19 has had a severe economic impact worldwide. Prior to COVID-19,
South Africa's economic growth was already under pressure, inter alia due to ailing state-
owned enterprises (SOEs), public debt, high unemployment and the weakened international
economic situation, which impacted on the country’s prospects for sustained growth. This
situation has been exacerbated by the pandemic.
This outlook is underscored by the global economic and financial community. In its “Global
Economic Prospects January 2022”, the World Bank highlighted the fact that, despite
rebounding to an estimated 5.5% in 2021, it is expected that global growth will decrease to
4.1% in 2022, inter alia due to continued COVID-19 waves. Global growth is projected to
decline further to 3.2% in 2023. Although the economic outlook for advanced economies for
2023 is positive, it is expected that emerging market and developing economies will struggle
to return to pre-pandemic levels, due to lower vaccination rates, tighter fiscal and monetary
policies, and more persistent scarring from the pandemic. It is, therefore, vital that global
cooperation be strengthened to ensure equitable vaccine distribution, enhanced health and
economic policies, debt sustainability in the poorest countries, and action to deal with the
cost of climate change.
Global trends
Having recognised the focus of the NDP, MTSF and South Africa's foreign policy objectives,
DIRCO has to contend with an environment that is interlinked with regional, continental
and global developments, fluctuations and disruptions. South Africa's foreign policy is
implemented within a highly dynamic and challenging global environment, which at times is
unpredictable. The COVID-19 pandemic, which has been around for the past two years, is
proof of this.
Natural disasters, such as severe drought and flooding, are on a global scale and will have
long-term socio-economic and security implications. Climate change is intensifying and will
cause global disruptions in all spheres with increasing severity.
COVID-19 caught the world unaware and brought about rapid and wide-spread changes.
The evolving variants and the efficacy of vaccinations is a signal that COVID-19 will be a
long-term situation. The unequal distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, especially to countries
of the South, is a source of concern.

It is believed that globalisation has resulted in the effects of COVID-19 and climate change
being more keenly felt. The global reaction to the pandemic has seen an erosion of national
sovereignty and the undermining of the UN, with important decisions being made by the G20.
The current global environment is characterised by a rise of new technologies and increased
technological asymmetry. Further trends include rising terrorism and violent extremism,
tensions over the peaceful use of nuclear weapons, threats of the illegal use of force,
transnational organised crime, as well as the displacement of populations due to civil conflict.
There has also been increasing irregular and illegal migration  due to conflicts contributing to
a significant rise in poverty and inequality.
There has also been an increasing trend towards unilateralism, protectionism, nationalism,
populism and an inward-looking focus on countries’ domestic priorities. Strong tendencies
to pursue national interests and the fragmentation of global decision-making are emerging.
In its “2022 Annual Forecast”, Stratfor Worldview is of the opinion that the global economy
will continue its uneven recovery amid progress in COVID-19 vaccinations in most developed
countries, lagging vaccinations in much of the rest of the world and the threat of new outbreaks.
While global growth will be relatively strong, it is likely to slow from 2021 due to setbacks from
the pandemic, persistent supply chain disruptions, higher inflation and tightening financial
conditions, as well as constraints on public spending in many countries as they cope with
high levels of debt and increased interest rates.
Technological developments
The Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) is transforming lives. The COVID-19 pandemic has
acted both as a catalyst and an accelerator for technological development. The ongoing
unprecedented rapid development of new technology, in particular the fifth-generation wireless
technology for digital cellular networks, the Internet of Things (IoT), Machine Learning and
Artificial Intelligence (AI), robotics, energy storage, quantum computing, material science,
biotechnology, 3-D printing and nanotechnology, mean that South Africa must continuously
assess what the positive and negative impact would be for the country to ensure a resilient
future.
The IoT has a total potential global economic impact of between USD3.9 trillion to USD11.1
trillion a year by 2025. Business-to-business (B2B) applications will account for 70% of value.
Developing economies could potentially generate n  early 40% of the IoT’s value. The 4IR
will promote gains in efficiencies and productivity, but also disrupt almost every South African
industry in terms of employment. Labour needs high educational skills levels. There is a
threat if the labour force is not reskilled.
It is readily accepted that the rapid innovation, development and diffusion of new technology
can act as a disrupter of traditional power dynamics, through such aspects as the manipulation
of personal data and biometric technology. Political and economic systems, via social media
platforms, can also be subjected to gross manipulation through software, typically Internet
bats such as social bats, votebots and clickbots and through "fake news" and increasingly
also "deep fakes". Software (malware) can also be specifically designed to disrupt, damage
or gain unauthorised access to a computer system in the private and public sectors and can
be used for nefarious purposes such as cyber-attacks and espionage and the application of
lethal autonomous weapons systems, among others.
Due to their international interconnectedness, among others, through Wi-Fi and other
social media, countries need to be more aware of the importance of cyber security and the
vulnerabilities that exist in this regard.
These "tech" and other challenges are often transnational in nature, making it impossible for
individual states to effectively respond on their own, thus requiring collective action through
diplomatic engagement. In this regard, multilateralism would have to continue to be a key
aspect of international relations with the UN, globally, and the AU, continentally, aiming to
provide and maintain a rules-based international system.
Multilateralism
Multilateralism remains a focal point of South Africa's foreign policy. South Africa's multilateral
engagements are premised on the need to advance its national interest and safeguard its
national positions, as well as advance the development priorities of developing countries and
promote an equitable rules-based multilateral system, as identified in Priority Seven of the
MTSF.
In order to influence multilateral processes to reflect and advance these priorities, South
Africa must be represented in multilateral fora to engage, influence, negotiate and articulate
its positions with the aim to have these positions reflected in the outcomes of multilateral
meetings and processes. In this regard, South Africa will utilise its status as current
Chairperson of the SADC Organ Troika and subsequent role as outgoing Chairperson in
2022 to promote the agenda of a peaceful SADC region.
Expected multilateral trends include:

• climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic have underlined the importance of
multilateral cooperation
• the COVID-19 pandemic has made the attainment of the SDGs 2030 Agenda and
Agenda 2063 unlikely within the set timeline
• a multipolar world continues to emerge with accompanying tensions
• the reform of the UN and other global governance bodies is still facing resistance from
large states
• the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and the G77 and China lack cohesion to enable the
South to have an influence in global governance structures
• blocs such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) could
diminish the influence of the G77 and China in climate-change negotiations

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
20
• the G20 is becoming more influential beyond its original economic mandate
• conflict resolution still depends on the UN or regional peacekeepers to bring about
stability
• the AU is making progress with the integration of the continent e.g. through the African
Court of Justice and Human Rights and the African Free Trade Agreement.
It would, however, appear that multilateralism is increasingly under threat, resulting in
stalemates on issues in fora such as the UN, International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Trade
Organisation (WTO), World Bank (WB), World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) and
the World Health Organisation (WHO).
South Africa needs to review certain relationships and alliances in a pragmatic way to better
realise its foreign policy objectives. This will require a re-evaluation of all previous assumptions,
in the realisation that there are and will be fundamental shifts in the global political and
economic environment i.e. the global trend away from multilateralism to unilateral-centred
international relations and being able to adapt to fluidity in the global environment.
DIRCO will continue to monitor international responses to the pandemic and continue to
identify best practices, opportunities and threats that will assist government to determine
how best to support the policy and practical interventions to reposition the country in the
post-pandemic global economy.
Institutional reform
South Africa's engagement with the UN is based on its commitment to promote an equitable
rules-based multilateral system and is informed by the recognition that the UN does not reflect
current global political and economic realities. A key priority in South Africa's engagement
with the UN is to advance the reform of the existing global governance architecture with a
view to improving the voice and representation of Africa and the developing world, as well
as the responsiveness of the UN system to the needs of and challenges faced by Africa and
developing states.
Promotion of cooperation between the United Nations and the African Union
South Africa’s third two-year term on the UN Security Council (SC) ended in December
2021. During its term, South Africa endeavoured to promote its views and values regarding,
among others, the importance of women in peace and security; championing the cause of
children in armed conflict situations; the rule of law at national and international levels; post-
conflict reconstruction and development; and the peaceful resolution of conflict while fighting
impunity.
South Africa’s Chairship of the AU Assembly of Heads of State and Government ended in
February 2021. To promote peace, security and stability on the continent, South Africa used
its simultaneous presence in the UNSC and its position as Chair of the AU's Assembly of
Heads of State and Government to strengthen cooperation between the UN and the AU.
Although South Africa has handed over the Chairship of the AU, it still supports closer
cooperation between the AU and UN. President Cyril Ramaphosa was appointed as AU
Champion for COVID-19.
Disarmament
The risk of a major conflict involving nuclear weapons and the radical consequences thereof
cannot be discounted. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons entered into force
on 22 January 2021. There were an estimated 13 080 nuclear weapons at the start of 2021
of which 3 825 were deployed with operational forces.
Important trends include:
• the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) increased nuclear and missile
development defies UN resolutions
• Iranian nuclear ambitions continue
• the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (New START) has been extended until 2026
• the United States (US) is reviewing its nuclear arsenal and ballistic missile defence
programme
• the development of hypersonic and directed-energy missiles is being undertaken by
several countries such as Australia, China, India, Japan, Pakistan and South Korea.
Terrorism
In the wake of recent terror attacks across the world, countering international terrorism
remains high on the agenda of the UN. There has been an increase in terrorism in all regions
with involvement by outside players. Terrorism and violent extremism also pose a serious
threat to socio-economic development on the African continent. South Africa's commitment
to combatting international terrorism under the auspices of the UN and the AU is reflected in
its participation in counter-terrorism structures, presenting it with an opportunity to promote
national and continental positions on this growing agenda. US and European Union (EU)
members continue to be active in counter-terrorism operations in Africa.
Climate change
Human-influenced climate change is occurring at a very high rate. Despite the international
community's ongoing fight against climate change, which kicked off during June 1992 in Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, at the second Earth Summit, global warming is continuing to escalate.
Even severe cuts are unlikely to prevent global warming of 1.5 - 2 degrees Celsius by the
end of the century.
The changes brought about by climate change will, in the medium to long term, include
periodic to continual flooding, protracted droughts and heat waves causing forest and
bush fires, reduced precipitation and reduction of glaciers in source catchment areas.
Certain regions such as the Middle East and North Africa will experience continual higher

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
21
temperatures making habitation more difficult. There will be a rise in conflicts over resources,
particularly water, e.g. over the Renaissance High Dam in Ethiopia, contested by Sudan
and Egypt. There will be large population shifts as certain regions become unable to sustain
large populations due to flooding, droughts, excessive temperatures etc. More sustainable
lifestyles will be developed to adapt to changing conditions, including renewable energy
generation, clean transportation, water utilisation, agricultural practices and carbon neutral.
Multilateral organisations will become increasingly important to coordinate global efforts.
South Africa's position on climate change has been defined, considering its national objectives
and premised on a science-and rules-based international system with multilateralism at
its core. South Africa advocates for a global response that is equitable and that provides
development space for developing countries, while developed countries take the lead in
emission reductions, closing the ambition gap, including those carried over from the pre-2020
to the post-2020 period and providing adequate means of implementation that will enable a
response to the challenge.
Gender
South Africa’s commitment to gender equality is firmly established in the Constitution (1996).
Chapter 2 of the Constitution, also known as the Bill of Rights, guarantees full and equal
enjoyment of all rights by all genders and the protection of people against any form of
discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of race, sex, gender, religion, etc.
The South African Parliament has also passed legislation that furthers the goals of gender
equality, including the Employment Equity Act, 1998, and the Promotion of Equality and
Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000. Several gender equality relevant frameworks
inform government policies and programmes. These include the National Policy Framework
for Women’s Empowerment and Gender Equality of 2000, also known as the Gender Policy
Framework, and reflects South Africa’s vision for gender equality and how it intends to realise
this ideal.
In addition, South Africa is a signatory to a number of international and regional instruments
relating to gender equality and women empowerment.
These include the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against
Women (CEDAW) of 1995, the AU Protocol to the African Charter on Human People’s Rights
on the Rights of Women better known as the Maputo Protocol (2005) and the Southern
African Development Community Protocol on Gender and Development (2012). Gender
mainstreaming continues to be a key process for instituting change and building an equal
society based on respect for human rights.
South Africa ratified the Beijing Platform for Action, an agenda towards empowerment of
women and girls, and made a firm commitment to mainstream gender within the Government
by creating the National Gender Machinery led by the Department of Women, Youth and
Persons with Disabilities. In 2021, South Africa ratified the International Labour Organisation
(ILO) Convention 190 aimed at ending violence and harassment in the world of work.
South-South and North-South cooperation
DIRCO will continue to contribute to the facilitation of economic growth and development
through regional and continental integration and will, therefore, continue to build relationships
with partners in the North and South, despite the huge gap between major and middle powers
on the one hand and developing countries on the other hand.
South Africa pursues mutually beneficial cooperation among countries and groupings of
the South to develop common positions on political, economic, social and human rights
issues as an effective response in addressing the historic marginalisation of these countries.
Groupings of the South share the need to restructure the global political, economic and
financial architecture to be more balanced, representative, inclusive and equitable, as well
as to ensure that the international system rests on the important pillars of multilateralism and
international law.
South Africa will also continue to use its membership and bilateral and multilateral
engagements with groupings of the South to support foreign policy objectives, advocate
for strong, mutually beneficial South-South cooperation, advocate for focussed regional
integration in fast-growing markets and strengthen regional cooperation in areas of interest
with countries of the South. Groupings of the South include BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India,
China and South Africa); IBSA (India, Brazil and South Africa); lORA (Indian Ocean Rim
Association); the Group of 77 (G77) and China; and the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
South Africa should continue to leverage strategic regional groupings such as BRICS, IBSA
and IORA to improve trade flows and build consensus in multilateral groupings.
South Africa engages with key global economic processes of the North, such as the WTO,
the WB, IMF, OECD, WIPO, the Group of Seven (G7) and the World Economic Forum
(WEF), to promote African Agenda 2063 in particular and the broader development interests
of developing countries in general. South Africa will also continue to facilitate and monitor the
implementation of existing mechanisms, such as the Joint Africa- Strategy, which provides a
framework for relations between Africa and the EU and the Tokyo International Conference on
African Development (TICAD), an international conference led by the Japanese Government
and co-sponsored by the UN, the UN Development Programme (UNDP), the AU Commission
(AUC) and the WB.
Relations with regions of the world
In line with the focus on economic growth and sustainable socio-economic development,
DIRCO negotiates and navigates international trends beyond its immediate region and the

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
22
continent. Over the last decade, the importance of building trade and investment relations
with new poles of economic growth in the world, has become ever more compelling.
This inexorable change in the economic geography of the world economy requires a more
purposeful effort to diversify South Africa's trade and investment relations to benefit from the
rapid and dynamic economic growth in the Global South.
DIRCO's international network of missions is a strategic asset that is being leveraged to
realise maximum return on the investment it represents for the people of South Africa.
Constrained foreign direct investment (FDI) and investment flows, protectionism and the
impact of US sanctions on (secondary) Iran and Huawei, have impacted the South African
domestic economy, for example the telecommunications sector.
South Africa should avoid taking sides on the growing tensions between China and the US,
to avoid compromising trade and investment with either country.
The African continent
South Africa remains a relevant and significant player in issues relating to the regional
agenda. This role is played both through bilateral and multilateral platforms. The ability to
contribute to humanitarian relief efforts, peace and mediation initiatives, positions the country
in a strategic pole of influence.
COVID-19 has had severe negative economic implications and impacted on the attainment
of the SDGs. The economic outlook for sub-Saharan Africa is, therefore, “clouded”.
The continent has seen an increase in terrorism in all regions with involvement by outside
players, including in the SADC region. The situation in Cabo Delgado, in Northern
Mozambique, remains a source of concern, as is that in eSwatini and Lesotho.
The start of trading under the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement, on
1 January 2021, marked the dawn of a new era in Africa’s development journey. Over time,
the AfCFTA will eliminate import tariffs on 97% of goods traded on the continent, as well as
address non-tariff barriers.
With regard to the AU, Morocco has been active since rejoining the organisation. During
2021, South Africa objected to the granting of observer status to Israel, a decision taken by
the Chair of the AUC. As far as the situation in the Saharawi Arab Republic is concerned, AU
support for the cause appears to be weakening.
With regard to the UN, UNSC reform and the granting of an African permanent seat(s) have
not been achieved.
Migration from Africa to Europe is continuing.
Regarding the African economic situation, economies have been struggling due to volatile oil
prices. The South African economy is not growing sufficiently. Furthermore, COVID-19 has
limited international trade and economic interactions with Africa.
According to the African Development Bank (AfDB), in its “African Economic Outlook”
supplement, published on 12 March 2021, although all economies in Africa have been
affected by the pandemic, tourism-dependent economies, oil-exporting economies and
other-resource intensive economies were the most significantly hit by the pandemic.
Tourism-dependent economies are projected to recover from an 11.5% GDP decline in 2020
to grow by 6.2% in 2021; oil-exporting countries, from a 1.5% decline to grow by 3.1%; and
other-resource-intensive economies, from a 4.7% decline to grow by 3.1%. Non-resource-
intensive countries, where output shrank by 0.9% in 2020, are projected to grow by 4.1% in
2021. The growth outlook for 2021 and beyond would depend largely on African governments’
effectiveness in flattening the curve of the outbreak and policies to reopen economies.
According to the AfDB, African  policymakers  must  turn  the  COVID–19  crisis  into
opportunities  by  focussing  sharply  on  food  and  nutritional  security;  by  re-thinking
healthcare and social protection systems;  by  nurturing  the  private  sector,  especially
small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  and  women-led  firms;  by  harnessing  and  better
managing  the  natural  resources  revenue  streams;  by  operationalising the AfCFTA;  and
by  paying  greater  attention  to  climate change and resilience.
About 30 million Africans were pushed into extreme poverty in 2020 as a result of the
pandemic and it is estimated that about 39 million Africans could fall into extreme poverty
in 2021. Those with lower levels of education, few assets and working in informal jobs, are
most affected. Inequality is also set to increase, because of the disproportionate impact of
the pandemic on such vulnerable groups as women, youth and low-skilled informal sector
workers.
Africa’s macro-economic fundamentals have been weakened by the pandemic. Fiscal deficits
are estimated to have doubled in 2020 to a historical high of 8.4% of GDP. Debt burdens
are likely to rise by 10 to 15 percentage points in the short to medium term. Exchange rate
fluctuations have been elevated and inflation has inched up, with external financial inflows
heavily disrupted.
Africa is the world's youngest continent with around 60% of the population currently under
the age of 25. Within the next two generations, it is expected that this youthful population will
increase more than 180%, compared to that of Europe and Asia, which will shrink by more
than 21% and by almost 28% respectively.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
23
Towards the end of the century, it is estimated that Africa's youth population will reach 1.3
billion, double the expected total population of Europe, and will represent almost half of the
world’s youth (Mo Ibrahim Foundation).
By 2034, the region is expected to have a larger workforce than either China or India.
According to the World Population Review, Africa is the second-largest and second most
populous continent on earth. In 2021, Africa’s population amounted to 1,373,480,428 persons.
The start of trading under the AfCFTA Agreement on 1 January 2021 is a key priority of
Africa's Agenda 2063 and a flagship project for the continent. According to the AU, the
AfCFTA is the world's largest single market of over 1.2 billion consumers with a combined
GDP of more than US$3.4 trillion and is poised to stimulate intra-Africa trade and investment.
The importance of the implementation of the AfCFTA for the prosperity of South Africa, the
region and the continent, can therefore not be overemphasised.
SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in political, security and economic integration. To
facilitate the process of integration, SADC has developed economic and strategic blueprints,
in particular the SADC Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap, as approved by the Summit
in April 2015. The strategy has been aligned to the AU Agenda 2063. Critical to regional
economic integration is the rapid implementation of the Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA),
as well as the AfCFTA, to boost industrial and infrastructure development and enhance intra-
regional trade. With regard to the Southern African Customs Union (SACU), the customs
union has to be transformed into a vehicle for regional integration, capable of promoting
equitable development, sustainable infrastructure development and industrialisation.
The TFTA is the initiative between three regional economic communities, namely the Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the East African Community (EAC) and
SADC and will be achieved by amalgamating the economies of the three regions with a
combined market of 26 countries, which constitute half of the member states of the AU, a
population of 625 million people and a combined GDP of US$833 billion. The TFTA is anchored
in three pillars: market integration, infrastructure development and industrial development
and is a precursor to the vision of realising an economically integrated continent. SADC and
SACU are primary vehicles to improved regional economic integration and important building
blocs for achieving the COMESA-EAC-SADC TFTA and the AfCFTA.
South Africa is the only African country in the G20 and BRICS, as well as being one of the top
10 strategic partners of the EU. South Africa must continue placing the African continent and
the Global South on the agenda of BRICS to synchronise policies, such as Agenda 2063 and
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
South Africa is also a power broker for several conflicts in the sub-region and on the continent
and continues to participate as a troop-contributing country to AU- and UN-authorised
peacekeeping missions, also being the largest contributor to the AU budget and top African
contributor to the UN budget. South Africa must continue to promote peace and stability on the
continent through preventative diplomacy, peacemaking, peace-building and peacekeeping
efforts. South Africa became a member of the SADC Organ on Politics and Defence in August
2020 and will serve for the next three years.
Europe and the European Union
The EU, including the Eurozone countries, is the single largest global trading bloc and
remains a key and essential international role-player.
The Euro area economy is recovering swiftly despite continued uncertainty related to the
COVID-19 pandemic and supply bottlenecks. It rebounded more strongly than expected in
the second quarter of 2021 and should continue to grow rapidly during the second half of the
year, with real GDP exceeding its pre-crisis level by the end of 2021.
Real GDP is expected to grow by 5% in 2021, and to moderate to 4.6% and 2.1% in 2022
and 2023 respectively. Compared with the June 2021 Euro-system staff projections, the
projection for quarterly growth during the second half of 2021 has been downgraded slightly
on the back of more persistent than expected supply bottlenecks, the more infectious Delta
variant of the Coronavirus and the stronger data outturns for the first half of the year, reducing
the scope for stronger growth thereafter.
Inflation is currently being pushed up largely by temporary factors that are expected to fade
in the coming years. The staff projections foresee inflation at 2.2% in 2021, 1.7% in 2022 and
1.5% in 2023. The following trends are highlighted:
• an increase in centrist government coalitions in larger countries and European voters
appear to be dissatisfied with traditional political parties
• Brexit is unfolding, but the COVID-19 pandemic has masked the full extent
• leaders on the continent are more pro-business and pro-Europe
• investment in Africa has been overtaken by vaccine measures
• reforms to the EU are possible in future
• potential terror attacks in Europe
• illegal migration is continuing
• the EU is under pressure from Eastern and Southern Europe
• US bilateral relations with Russia are expected to remain tense
• the EU has competitive advantages in 4IR.
For South Africa, it is expected that trade with and investment and tourism from Europe
will stabilise and increase. For Europe, there is an expectation for South Africa to take a
greater role in peace and security and combatting corruption in Africa. Trade and investment,
including support for the President's investment initiative, is the primary focus of diplomatic

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
24
efforts in this region, with a particular focus on the sectors that can promote industrialisation
and increased beneficiation, and those that can transform South Africa's economy.
FDI from Europe is estimated at over R1 trillion with more than 2 000 companies operating in
South Africa, employing South Africans, enhancing their skills and investing in the economy.
Europe has traditionally been the largest source of development cooperation with South
Africa. These are focussed on addressing poverty, job creation and inequality and include
programmes in addressing energy challenges (particularly green and renewable energy);
water resources; the ocean's economy; small, medium and micro enterprise development;
agriculture; education; science and technology; and mineral beneficiation. The focus of
DIRCO will continue with the consolidation of relations with these regional partners and to
promote partnerships in support of South Africa's domestic priorities.
The economic partnership agreements (EPAs) between the EU and African, Caribbean and
Pacific (ACP) countries and regions aim to promote ACP-EU trade, and ultimately contribute,
through trade and investment, to sustainable development and poverty reduction. Trade with
ACP countries represents more than 5% of EU imports and exports. The EU is a major
trading partner for ACP countries.
To manage its relations with the ACP, SADC developed a Common Position Paper, focussing
on three pillars, namely trade and investment, development cooperation and political dialogue
and advocacy.South Africa played a key role in the development of the SADC Common
Position and supported the SADC approach, including that the new ACP mandate should
place greater centrality and focus on its three distinct regions (Africa, Caribbean and Pacific)
as the "regional building blocks" for the ACP.
Consequently, in the case of Africa, emphasis should be placed on advancing the regional
integration processes in SADC and on Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want. The EU is the
SADC EPA group’s largest trading partner, with South Africa accounting for the largest part of
EU imports to and EU exports from the region.
The SADC-EU EPA covers trade and investment issues and regional integration efforts. The
EU had previously indicated that the EPAs would also form the legal framework under which
it would incorporate support for the achievement of the SDGs and support for climate change
projects. This undertaking represents a move beyond the donor/recipient relationship towards
long-term cooperation on jointly identified, mutual and complementary interests, based on
the principles of equality, ownership, partnership, solidarity, complementarity, subsidiarity
and proportionality. The SADC EPA countries' main export product to the EU is diamonds.
Other products from the region include agricultural products, oil and aluminum. South Africa's
exports to the EU are more diversified and range from fruit to platinum and from manufactured
goods to wine. The EU exports a wide range of goods to SADC EPA countries, including
vehicles, machinery, electrical equipment, pharmaceuticals and processed food.
On the continental level, the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership provides an overarching long-
term framework for intercontinental relations aimed at promoting economic cooperation,
sustainable development, peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human
dignity for the benefit of its members.
South Africa and the Americas
According to a Reuters article published on 10 October 2021, Goldman Sachs cut its US
economic growth target to 5.6% for 2021 and to 4% for 2022, citing an expected decline in
fiscal support through the end of 2022 and a more delayed recovery in consumer spending
than previously expected.
The firm previously expected 5.7% GDP growth in 2021 and 4.4% growth in 2022, according
to research from authors, including its chief economist, Jan Hatzius.
They pointed to a "longer lasting virus drag on virus-sensitive consumer services" as well as
an expectation that semiconductor supply likely will not improve until the first half of 2022.
The following trends are highlighted:
• It is expected that the Biden Administration will take time to reverse the Trump legacy.
• The USA’s new commitment to multilateralism.
• Regional trade and security rivalry in the Asia-Pacific region, especially China. It is also
expected that the tension with China will increase.
• Economic recovery in the USA.
• Infrastructure rebuilding, including green projects and the 4IR.
• Voters’ distrust of the political establishment is expected to continue.
• Illegal migration will increase.
• The African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) will be replaced in the near future.
• Private-sector investment results in competitive advantage in 4IR.
• Tensions are likely to increase with the EU as the US priority moves to Asia.
• US bilateral relations with Russia are expected to remain tense.
• US military involvement in Africa.
• US funding and support of multilateralism and the UN.
• Opportunities for South Africa in increased trade, investment and involvement in
infrastructure projects.
Although SACU was unable to conclude a free trade agreement with the USA, a cooperative
trade arrangement has been concluded, namely the Trade, Investment and Development
Cooperation Agreement (TIDCA) that would build on the trade benefits offered under the
AGOA. In this context, DIRCO will work to ensure that the engagement with the USA supports
regional integration in southern Africa.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
25
As a major trade and investment partner and a global technology leader, a retreat by the USA
from globalisation could adversely affect South Africa’s objectives to attract greater levels
of FDI, enhance value-added exports and engage with the 4IR in support of the country’s
economic recovery efforts. The USA’s leaning more and more towards protectionism has
resulted in the imposition of tariffs on South Africa’s exports of steel and aluminum and a
review of our eligibility for the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP). Also, increasing
US pressure for FTAs with African countries poses a threat to the AU’s agenda for greater
regional integration in the context of the AfCFTA.
On 27 September 2021, Standard and Poors released its “Economic Outlook Latin America
Q4 2021”. According to the report, Latin American economies performed better than expected
during the second quarter of 2021. The services sectors in the region were more resilient to
the COVID-19 Delta variant than was envisioned. Exports also performed well, especially
commodities. Although they projected a mild contraction, average GDP grew 0.1% quarter on
quarter in the largest six Latin American countries (the LatAm 6, which comprises Argentina,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru).
The biggest upside surprise was Chile, which expanded by 1.0% quarter on quarter despite
repeatedly imposing lockdowns, due primarily to very strong growth in durable goods
consumption (12.6% quarter on quarter), boosted by allowances to withdraw funds from
individual pension accounts. This pushed up its 2021 GDP growth projection for the LatAm 6
by half a percentage point to 6.5%, after contracting 6.8% in 2020. Their forecasts for 2022
and beyond remain broadly unchanged, as it sees the region converging toward its long-
term average of around 2.5% growth. The region will continue to face the same structural
economic challenges it did before the pandemic: slow productivity growth, driven by low and
inefficient investment. Trends in the region include:
• Venezuela’s economic downward spiral.
• Cuban instability, with Cubans agitating for greater changes.
• Brazilian politics are divided.
• Political instability in Colombia.
• Constitutional reform in several countries.
• The SACU-Southern Common Market (Mercosur) Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA)
entered into force in 2016. Opportunities for investment remain abundant and close
cooperation with current governments within the region continue to be beneficial to
South Africa.
• South African mining companies have large investments in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and
Peru.
Asia and the Middle East
South Africa maintains strong political relations with the countries of Asia and the Middle East
and these partnerships tangibly contribute towards progress on the priorities identified in the
NDP.
It is against these targets that DIRCO aims to execute a more assertive economic strategy
towards the region based on South Africa's national priorities, within the parameters of South-
South solidarity and development cooperation.
South African diplomatic engagements in the region focus on gaining access to new markets
for manufactured products and market access negotiations for South African agricultural
products are being pursued with a number of countries.
South African economic diplomacy efforts focus on market entry and positioning South African
companies to benefit from the favourable growth and future economic growth projections
of the region. The region also provides opportunities for skills development and training
collaboration in line with the priorities identified in the National Skills Development Strategy.
South Africa's strategy of engagement with Asia and the Middle East is pursued with the
following sub-regional focus:
• Southeast Asia is a dynamic and vibrant region characterised by high rates of economic
growth and development. The region thus represents a major growing market for value-
added South African exports, especially within the manufacturing and consumer goods
sectors. Further areas of expansion are envisaged within the financial services, mining
equipment and technology, agro-processing and defence procurement sectors. Many
countries have invested in the South African economy and further FDI will be identified,
as well as exploring training opportunities in those areas where South Africa experiences
skills shortages.
• The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) will, post-COVID-19, continue to
be a high economic growth region with global supply chains. The USA, India, Japan and
Australia are expanding their regional roles through economic and maritime security
cooperation with ASEAN. China is increasing its outreach by expanding its global supply
chains and networks into ASEAN. There is an opportunity for cooperation between
SADC and ASEAN through IORA.
• South Africa enjoys strong political, economic and technical relations with the countries
in the East Asia and Oceania region. Bilateral relations with countries in the region are
pursued in line with priorities highlighted in the NDP and 2019 SONA. South Africa's
trade and investment relations with the region are strong and growing, but there is
substantial room for expansion. Tourism from the region, in particular, has huge potential
to contribute to South Africa's GDP. The region is home to some of South Africa's biggest
investment partners and cooperation contributes to industrialisation, job creation, science
and technology, infrastructure development and skills development.
• China is South Africa’s major trade partner, but there is a deficit in the trade balance.
China does not view South Africa as its only African partner. Furthermore, China can
be seen as an economic competitor for South Africa companies in Africa, especially in
Eastern Africa.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
26
• Regarding Japan and the Korean Peninsula, the current trade balance is positive, but
more investment and technology transfer is needed into the South African economy.
South Korean manufacturing and investment with South Africa is lacklustre. South Africa
can learn from the Korean economic growth model.
• Progress has been made in the South Africa-India Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA).
It is expected that India will experience high economic growth over the long term. The
country offers a large market for South African exports and services. It appears that
India supports more cooperation within IBSA and IORA and is feeling increasingly
“uncomfortable” in BRICS.
• In Central Asia, the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan is set to destabilise the region.
In addition, China’s rise in Central Asia marks a consequential change in regional
geopolitics, particularly for Russia and Turkey. The rivalry between China and the Russia
in Central Asia could possibly impact negatively on the cohesion in BRICS.
• South Africa remains committed to a stable and peaceful Middle East and supports
sustainable and just solutions to the various conflicts in the region. The region is an
important component of South Africa's global trade and is a critical energy partner
to South Africa. The strong focus on investment will be continued in the objectives
pursued in 2020 to 2025 through South Africa's diplomatic engagement with the region.
South Africa remains committed to supporting the two-State solution and the people of
Palestine. Trends in the region include:
 - escalation of tension between the Saudi-led alliance and Iran (Yemen and Qatar)
 - Israeli relations with Arab states to improve
 - militant Islam is set to increase the conflict in Iraq and Syria
 - the social role of religion is being contested
 - US tensions with Iran are set to continue
 - the Middle East is seen as a climate change hot-spot
 - relations with the USA appear to be entering a new phase
 - the Israeli-Palestinian stalemate in the conflict
 - the role of Saudi Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
 - the impact of volatile oil prices on economic growth
 - political changes in Iran
 - unemployed youth increases
 - South African exports to Doha as an economic hub and oil imports from both
countries
 - Sasol investments in Qatar.
4.2 I nternal environment analysis
The department is committed to sound corporate governance and has developed various
internal control mechanisms to strengthen corporate governance. Internally, there are various
management structures and committees in place with terms of reference that meet on a
regular basis. These management structures serve as mechanisms to improve corporate
governance and decision-making and enhance communication.
The department has fully functioning assurance units such as Risk Management and Internal
Audit. These units are supported by the Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee,
both chaired by independent (external) chairpersons. The department can report that both
committees are contributing positively to the risk and audit management processes in the
department.
The department continues to deliver a world-class protocol service to the President, Deputy
President, Minister and Deputy Ministers of International Relations and Cooperation, as well
as other Cabinet ministers. It also provides an advisory service to all spheres of government
on all matters related to protocol.
The Diplomatic Academy and International School is a certified training provider and offers
Public Service Education and Training Authority-accredited training programmes. In addition,
the Diplomatic Academy and International School subscribes to the International Standards
Organisation (ISO 9001) for its quality management systems and is certified by the South
African Bureau of Standards (SABS).
Despite the above, it should be noted that the APP is to be delivered in an environment that is
still characterised by fiscal constraints, recurring qualified audit outcomes and an information
and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure that is in urgent need of an upgrade.
In response to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department
engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on a non-
residential basis, in a bid to contain costs; this process resulted in the closure of several
missions.
Furthermore, the department is in the process of developing identified systems to improve
operations’ efficiencies and effectiveness in automating business processes.
The ageing ICT infrastructure has been in the process of upgrade following the approved
digital strategy. Following the qualification in the 2019/20 financial audit on current receivables,
the department ensured significant improvements in controls during 2020/21, however, these
were not sufficient to influence a favourable outcome.
Although the department has been qualified on the financial statements, it has received an
unqualified audit opinion on predetermined objectives. Due to the nature of departmental

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
27
operations, it has to contend with foreign currency fluctuations, resulting in foreign exchange
losses, due to the depreciation of the Rand against other major foreign currencies, which
negatively impacts on the department.
The department has been engaging in a process of organisational renewal as a tool to assist
the organisation to achieve its identified strategic objectives for the next five years. This has
required of the department to review and finalise its organisational structure to align it with its
strategic plan and the priorities of the MTSF 2019 – 2024.
It will require the department to implement effective financial management through the
application of good financial management systems, including management accounting,
financial accounting, supply chain management, and risk and internal controls, in line with the
requirements of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act 1 of 1999). Strategic focus
is also being given to ensure digital transformation of business capabilities to enable efficient
delivery of the department's mandate in a smart and secure manner.
Due to the shortfall on the Compensation of Employees (CoE) budget, vacancies cannot
be filled, which may impact negatively on service delivery and the achievement of the
department's mandate. In order to mitigate the associated risks on the shortfall of the CoE,
the department will focus on upskilling and reskilling its human resources. In addition,
responding to the challenges posed by the constrained fiscal environment, the department
is engaged in a process of reviewing its global footprint and seeking accreditation on a non-
residential basis, in a bid to contain costs.
The department, guided by South Africa’s foreign policy objectives and interest, intends to
continue taking a leading role in entrenching women’s rights as fundamental human rights
critical for the full realisation of inclusive and sustainable developments. The department
will thus use the available instruments to mainstream gender and empower women, youth,
gender non-conforming and persons with disabilities. It will also use various diplomatic
engagements to strengthen South Africa’s international solidarity work, anchored in South
Africa’s regional and global priorities.
The department continues to strengthen existing budgeting and reporting tools and
instruments to leverage for an effective roll-out of Gender Responsive Budgeting (GBS).
Limited adjustments are still required to fully integrate the outcomes of the Gender Impact
Assessments in the budget process, making room for gender-related information in the budget
documentation or introduce standards for using a gender lens in the budget processes. This
will imply continuous capacity-building for all the stakeholders in the budget process. An
approach combining the preparation of a GBS and a gender expenditure tagging mechanism
is envisaged.
The department's reporting systems have the potential to expand to report on gender
mainstreaming. The department supports South Africa’s commitment to build a culture of
peace through the full implementation of South Africa’s National Action Plan on Women,
Peace and Security and the Youth Peace and Security agendas.
These are reflected in various internal programmes within the department.  In order to
augment these priorities, the department will continue to enhance gender mainstreaming
through training programmes such as the Conflict Resolution, Mediation and Negotiation
capacity training programme, which is targeted at the grassroots level for women and youth,
persons with disabilities and the LGBTQI+ community, both domestically and on the continent.
Our in-house leadership programmes also enhance gender mainstreaming, especially in
the diplomatic training and the Mission Administration Management, Foreign Administration
Attaché and Cadets programmes, which prepare officials in leadership for mission
assignments, where missions are also expected to align to the policy priorities of the
department.
Within the department, a healthy working environment is prioritised for ensuring a healthy
workforce. As such, the department, throughout the year, conducts awareness on anti-sexual
harassment and the provision of reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities.
These programmes implement our policies on labour relations and adherence to the
8-Principles Plan on Gender Equality and Women Empowerment in the Workplace.
The department, through the Workplace Vaccination Programme, coordinated by the
Employee Health and Wellness (EHW) Directorate, facilitated on-site COVID-19 vaccinations.
A total of 528 employees and some of their family members have been vaccinated since
the commencement of the Workplace Vaccination Programme. Psychosocial support and
bereavement counselling are provided to employees and their families at Head Office and in
missions to help them cope with the impact of COVID-19.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
28
PART C:   MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
30
5.  I NSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
PROGRAMME 1: ADMINISTRATION
Purpose: Provide strategic leadership, management and support services to the department
Description: Provide the leadership and support functions that enable the department to effectively and efficiently engage in its international activities
The key focus of the programme:
• maintains good financial management practices in order to sustain unqualified/clean audit outcomes
• addresses the skills and developmental needs of its officials, and supports the international relations competencies of partner departments
• provides legal and policy advice related to domestic and international law
• acts as primary counsel on international law matters for the Government as a whole
• acts as official custodian and depositary of the South African Treaty Collection
• supports the effective administration of the department, specifically through the provision of legal advice, legal services and assistance relating to all aspects of a legislative, operational
and departmental nature at Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions, and by managing the litigation cases against and by the department in South Africa and abroad
• advances gender equality and women’s empowerment through gender mainstreaming by integrating gender perspectives into the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and programmes
• creates an enabling environment for effective implementation of policies focussed on youth empowerment and advancements of rights of people with disabilities
• independently examines and evaluates the ongoing internal governance processes and provides counsel and recommendations for improvement, whenever there are gaps identified during
risk management.
Sub-programme 1.1:  Ministry
Purpose: Provide political leadership
Sub-programme 1.2:  Departmental Management
Purpose: Provide strategic and administrative support to the department
Sub-programme 1.3:  Audit S ervices
Purpose: Monitor the development and implementation of effective and efficient internal control systems
Sub-programme 1.4:  Financial Management
Purpose: Provide financial management services
Sub-programme 1.5:  Corporate Services
Purpose: Provide effective, efficient and economical support services to the department
Sub-programme 1.6:  Diplomatic T raining, Research and Development (DTRD)
Purpose: Provide diplomatic training, facilitate the provision of functional training in the department and conduct research
Sub-programme 1.7:  Foreign Fixed Assets Management
Purpose: Provide and manage the State’s fixed assets foreign portfolio
Sub-programme 1.8:  Office Accommodation
Purpose: Manage the local property portfolio

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
31
       OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF Period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
A modern, effective
department, with
capable and skilled
employees, which
is committed to the
excellent execution
of South Africa’s
foreign policy
Improved
organisational
functioning
through an
enhanced
digital
environment
Number of
progress
reports on the
implementation
of the Digital
Strategy
New indicator Digital Strategy
adopted
Four progress
reports on the
imlementation
of
the Digital
Strategy
Four progress
reports on the
implementation
of
the Digital
Strategy
Monitor and
review the
digital strategy
Monitor and
review the
digital strategy
Unqualified
audit opinion
Number of
progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
New indicator Qualified audit
opinion
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Four progress
reports on the
Audit Action
Plan
Improved
organisational
function
through
generic skills
development
programme
implementation
Number
of reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
New indicator Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme
Four reports
on training
programmes
conducted
in line with
Generic Skills
Development
Programme

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
32
       OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF Period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Position the
Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
Number
of reports
on aspects
implemented
towards
positioning
the Diplomatic
Academy as
a centre of
excellence in
foreign service
training
New indicator ISO-certified
quality
management
system
maintained
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
Maintain ISO-
certified quality
management
system
New indicator Gap analysis
conducted and
implementation
plan on
building
institutional
capacity to
deliver the AU/
UN languages
developed
Two training
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Two progress
reports on the
delivery of AU/
UN languages
Framework
for building
partnerships
and networks
developed
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Two progress
reports on the
collaboration
with partners to
enrich training
programmes of
the academy
Gender
mainstreaming
by focussing
on women,
youth and
persons with
disabilities
Number
of gender
mainstreaming
initiatives
focussing on
women, youth
and persons
with disabilities
Six initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Six initiatives
to change
behaviour
in relation to
gender
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Six initiatives
to advance
gender equality
and women’s
empowerment
through gender
mainstreaming
Four mentoring
and job
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting youth
Two mentoring
and job
shadowing
outreach
initiatives
targeting youth
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment
Two initiatives
to advance
youth
development
and
empowerment

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
33
       OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF Period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper
on the Rights
of Persons with
Disabilities
Two strategic
interventions
to strengthen
the capacity
of DIRCO to
effectively
and equitably
implement the
White Paper
on the Rights
of Persons with
Disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Two initiatives
to mainstream
the rights of
persons with
disabilities
Legal advice
and services
provided in
respect of
international
and domestic
law
Percentage of
legal advice
and services
rendered
100% (941)
legal services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% (698)
legal services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% (389)
legal advice
and services
rendered
100% legal
services,
advice and
assistance
provided
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered
100% legal
advice and
services
rendered

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
34
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of progress reports on
the implementation of the Digital
Strategy
Four progress reports on the
implementation of
the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
One progress report on the
implementation of the Digital
Strategy
Number of progress reports on
the Audit Action Plan
Four progress reports on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
One progress report on the
Audit Action Plan
Number of reports on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
Four reports on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
One report on training
programmes conducted in line
with Generic Skills Development
Programme
Number of reports on aspects
implemented towards
positioning the Diplomatic
Academy as a centre of
excellence in foreign service
training
Maintain ISO-certified quality
management system SABS Audit report issued
Two progress reports on the
delivery of AU/UN languages One progress report on the
delivery of AU/UN languages
One progress report on the
delivery of AU/UN languages
Two progress reports on the
collaboration with partners to
enrich training programmes of
the academy
One progress report on the
collaboration with partners to
enrich training programmes of
the academy
One progress report on the
collaboration with partners to
enrich training programmes of
the academy
Number of gender
mainstreaming initiatives
focussing on women, youth and
persons with disabilities
Six initiatives to advance
gender equality and women’s
empowerment through gender
mainstreaming
One initiative to advance
gender equality and women’s
empowerment through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance
gender equality and women’s
empowerment through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance
gender equality and women’s
empowerment through gender
mainstreaming
One initiative to advance
gender equality and women’s
empowerment through gender
mainstreaming
Two initiatives to advance youth
development and empowerment
One initiative to advance youth
development and empowerment
One initiative to advance youth
development and empowerment
Two initiatives to mainstream
the rights of persons with
disabilities
One initiative to mainstream the
rights of persons with disabilities
One initiative to mainstream the
rights of persons with disabilities
Percentage legal advice and
services rendered
100% legal advice and services
rendered
100% legal advice and services
rendered
100% legal advice and services
rendered
100% legal advice and services
rendered
100% legal advice and services
rendered

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
35
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The department is committed to improve organisational functioning, particularly through a process of digital revolution by automating some processes to improve effectiveness. An effective ICT
as a core part of digital transformation will contribute effectively towards the department’s efforts to positively respond to the fiscal constraints through innovative technological advances which
intend permitting improvisation in order to continue to be effective towards its core mandate, without compromising the quality of the outputs. The current realities call for organisational renewal,
innovation as well as the department’s transition towards a digitisation system currently in progress in order to assist the organisation to achieve more and to deliver on its mandate and the five-
year strategic objectives. It also requires the department to streamline its processes with a specific emphasis on improving its digital environment through its Digital Strategy.
The department is thus committed to place ICT as an enabler in the process to improve organisational functioning, working towards the automation and modern digitisation of business
processes, to reduce turnaround time and improve service delivery. This has become more urgent in the light of the new normal the world is operating in. There is an increasing demand for
secure online platforms, which was necessitated by the dramatic increase in virtual engagements.

Due to the reduced budget for the compensation of employees, it has been difficult for the department to fill current vacant posts. These vacancies have been aggravated by an aging workforce
resulting in natural attrition. This has led to a process to review the structure of the department to find ways to optimise the current staff establishment to maximise delivery on its ever-increasing
mandate.
The department will, through the Diplomatic Academy, provide and facilitate quality and responsive training that aims to develop and shape extraordinary diplomats to advance South Africa’s
interests in a dynamic world. Furthermore, the Diplomatic Academy offers quality training programmes in line with ISO quality management standards, ensuring that it maintain its commitment
to become a centre of excellence. Current trends in diplomacy, particularly the digitisation of diplomacy, has a direct bearing on the training and the modality of training the Diplomatic Academy
offers.
In addition, the Diplomatic Academy continues to support the linguistic development of our Foreign Service officials, through the implementation of the “One Official One Language Approach”,
delivering several AU/ UN languages programme.
The Diplomatic Academy will increase its utilisation of partnerships to enrich training programmes.
International law provides for the rules regulating diplomatic interaction and relations between states and the operation of international organisations. In this regard, the department, through the
Office of the Chief State Law Adviser (IL), will continue to support Government to achieve its foreign policy objectives by providing legal advice on international law. The office also provides legal
services and assistance relating to all aspects of a legislative, operational and departmental nature at Headquarters and to missions operating in foreign jurisdictions and by managing litigation
cases against and by the department in South Africa and abroad. It will also continue to act as official custodian and depositary of the Official South African Treaty Collection. It will also continue
to monitor South Africa’s compliance with its international obligations to submit national reports in terms of international agreements and customary international law and report to Cabinet twice
a year.
The department, during its planning of setting the objectives to be achieved over the mid-term, committed to develop plans to improve the organisational function and enhance its financial
management, in order to move to an unqualified audit outcome.
Gender mainstreaming was established as a major global strategy for the promotion of gender equality in the Beijing Platform for Action from the Fourth United Nations World Conference on
Women in Beijing in 1995. Domestically, a normative framework on gender equality informs government policies and programmes. These include the National Policy Framework for Women’s
Empowerment and Gender Equality of 2000, also known as the Gender Policy Framework, which reflects South Africa’s vision for gender equality and how it intends to realise this ideal. Gender
mainstreaming is thus regarded as an essential part of good governance and is, therefore, a critical tool for the department in ensuring that policies and programmes respond to the needs and
interests of all employees. The department will be using it as a strategy that integrates gender considerations as an integral dimension of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of policies and programmes with the ultimate goal of achieving gender equality.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
36
To ensure mainstreaming and the distribution of benefits equitably between the workforce, irrespective of gender and disability, the department will continue with programmes that mainstream
the rights of persons with disabilities. Despite the existence of various policies, legislation and programmes that address disability as a human rights and development issue, the mainstreaming
of the rights of persons with disabilities has gained traction with the adoption of the White Paper on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2016). The advancement of disability mainstreaming
in the department will include addressing barriers that exclude persons with disabilities from participating equally and meaningfully in the work of DIRCO, including provision of reasonable
accommodation to employees with disabilities.
In South Africa, the youth represent more than a third of the population, with those within the age group 15 to 34 constituting 34.7% of the population ( 2020 Statistics South Africa Mid-term
Population Survey). Bearing this in mind, young people continue to face serious challenges, and key among them is the problem of structural unemployment, poverty and inequality. In order to
address these challenges, the department will mainstream youth development in its work guided by the National Youth Policy for 2020 – 2030 (NYP 2030). This cross-sectoral policy is aimed
at effecting positive youth development outcomes among young people at local, provincial and national levels in South Africa.
DIRCO emphasises the importance of systematic attention to gender equality in departmental policies, planning and programmes. This is ensured through the use of the Gender Strategic
Framework, which supports the vision of the Constitution of equal representation of and participation by women in all workplace activities. The framework further supports equal opportunities
for skills development, upward mobility and the advancement of women in the department at all levels.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
37
PROGRAMME 1: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme1: Administration for the 2022 MTEF. The allocated budget for Administration amounts to 26.2% of the total departmental budget
for the 2022/23 financial year. The budget allocation for this programme will increase from R1.691 billion in the 2021/22 financial year to R1.732 billion in the 2022/23 financial year and the
increase is mainly for capital infrastructure for the construction, refurbishment and renovations of state-owned properties abroad as well as the Information and Communication Technology
(ICT) budget for the implementation of the ICT strategy.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Ministry           6 883 6 223  6 357  6 599  6 674  6 609  6 906
Departmental Management         16 864 15 415  17 552  18 303  18 512  18 332  19 155
Audit Services         23 928 25 943  17 144  21 660  22 044  22 126  23 119
Financial Management       176 102 172 402  174 485  173 364  169 680  192 132  200 759
Corporate Services      676 267 622 048  587 103  923 402  826 316  664 609  694 452
Diplomatic Training, Research and Development         57 492 53 272  43 533  45 053  50 842  56 476  59 014
Foreign Fixed Assets Management        33 969 16 233  7 913  83 973  166 122  328 699  343 461
Office Accommodation       363 985 383 478  412 018  418 451  471 910  498 220  520 595
Total   1 355 490  1 295 014  1 266 105  1 690 805  1 732 100  1 787 203  1 867 461

Economic classification Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Compensation of employees 469 437  496 550  485 093  462 300  457 370  484 863  506 638
Goods and services  728 682  635 921  606 879  783 332  805 604  812 623  850 155
Interest on rent and land 94 947  105 016  116 982  125 367  131 106  135 906  140 968
Transfers and subsidies 2 002  2 057  3 438  3 414  1 827  1 834  1 916
Payments for capital assets 47 398  55 470  39 317  316 392  336 193  351 977  367 784
Payments for financial assets 13 024  14 396  -    -    -    -
Total    1 355 490  1 295 014  1 266 105  1 690 805  1 732 100  1 787 203  1 867 461

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
38
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment in January 2022
Number of posts
 filled in January 2022
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 3 1 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 134 110 2
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 335 284 10
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 344 259 13
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 69 55 5
Special advisers 2 2 0
Political office bearers 3 3 0
Total 890 714 30

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
39

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
40
PROGRAMME 2: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Purpose: Promote relations with foreign countries
Description: The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in
multilateral fora. Structured bilateral mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments
to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer to numerous regularised and formalised meetings
that South Africa has with other countries.
These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. It is an important
platform for the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various departments, depending on the area of cooperation being
pursued.
Sub-programme 2.1: Africa
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Africa
Sub-programme 2.2: Asia and the Middle East
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Asia and the Middle East
Sub-programme 2.3: Americas and Caribbean
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in America and the Caribbean
Sub-programme 2.4: Europe
Purpose: Promote relations with countries in Europe

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
41
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Leveraged
bilateral,
political,
economic and
social relations
to achieve the
objectives of
the NDP and the
MTSF priorities
Strengthen
bilateral
relations
towards:
• contributing to
achievement of
the NDP
• alleviating triple
challenges
(inequality,
poverty and
unemployment)
• achieving
the MTSF
priorities
• promoting
national
interest
• promoting
regional and
continental
priorities
• garnering
support on
multilateral
issues of
mutual
interest
Number of
regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
New indicator 12 regional
reports on
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-
level visits
are aligned to
achievement of
the NDP and
MTSF
12 regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
12 regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
12 regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF
12 regional
political reports,
including the
outcomes of
structured
bilateral
mechanisms
and high-level
visits aligned
to achievement
of the NDP and
MTSF

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
42
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Increased
foreign direct
investment (FDI)
and contributed
to economic
growth in South
Africa
Contributed
to economic
growth in South
Africa through
export and
investment
promotion by:
• exploring
new areas
for trade and
investment
ranging from
primary,
secondary
and tertiary
sectors
• nurturing and
expanding
existing
trade and
investment
• establishing
business-
to-business
relations
Number of
quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
New indicator 12 regional
investment
strategy and
quarterly
progress
reports
reflecting
DIRCO’s
contribution
towards
increased FDI
into South
Africa and
Africa
12 regional
investment
strategies
and quarterly
progress
reports
12 quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
12 quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach
12 quarterly
progress
reports on the
regional trade
and investment
initiatives
undertaken
in support
of the one
government
investment
approach

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
43
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
New indicator

12 regional
trade strategies
aligned with
the Integrated
National Export
Strategy (INES)
and quarterly
progress
reports
reflecting
DIRCO’s
contribution
to export
promotion
12 progress
reports on
regional trade
strategies
aligned with the
INES

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
44
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Contributed to
growth in the
tourism sector
by networking
and showcasing
South Africa’s
diverse tourism
industry
Number of
regional reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing
towards growth
in the tourism
sector in support
of the one
government
tourism
approach
New indicator 12 regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination, the
opportunities
and barriers
12 regional
tourism reports
on tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
12 regional
reports on
tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support of the
one government
tourism
approach
12 regional
reports on
the tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support of the
one government
tourism
approach
12 regional
reports on
tourism-
promotion
events to
promote South
Africa as a
preferred tourist
destination,
thereby
contributing to
growth in the
tourism sector
in support of the
one government
tourism
approach

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
45
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Increased regional
integration
Contribution
towards regional
integration and
the imlementation
of the Revised
Regional
Indicative
Strategic
Development
Plan (RISDP)
Number of
assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation
of the RISDP
New indicator Two assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• good governance
and democracy
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation
of the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation
of the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation
of the RISDP
Two assessment
reports of
South Africa’s
contribution
towards:
• peace and
stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance
and democracy
• the
implementation
of the RISDP

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
46
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGTETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
MTSF
12 regional political reports,
including the outcomes
of structured bilateral
mechanisms and high-level
visits aligned to achievement
of the NDP and MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral Mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
the MTSF
Three regional political
reports, including the
outcomes of structured
bilateral mechanisms and
high-level visits aligned to
achievement of the NDP and
the MTSF
Number of quarterly progress
reports on the regional trade
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of  the
one government investment
approach
12 quarterly progress
reports on the regional trade
and investment initiatives
undertaken  in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on the regional
trade and investments
and investment initiatives
undertaken in support of the
one government investment
approach
Number of regional reports
on  tourism-promotion events
to promote South Africa as a
preferred tourist destination,
thereby contributing to
growth in the tourism
sector in support of the one
government tourism approach
12 regional tourism reports
on tourism-promotion events
to promote South Africa as a
preferred tourist destination,
thereby contributing to
growth in the tourism
sector in support of the one
government tourism approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on  regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
Three quarterly progress
reports on regional tourism-
promotion events to promote
South Africa as a preferred
tourist destination, thereby
contributing to growth in the
tourism sector in support of
the one government tourism
approach
REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Number of assessment
reports of South Africa’s
contribution towards:
• peace and stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the
RISDP
Two assessment reports of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the
RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the
RISDP
One assessment report of
South Africa’s contribution
towards:
• peace and stability
• socio-economic
development
• good governance and
democracy
• the implementation of the
RISDP

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
47
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The department is committed to the excellent execution of South Africa’s foreign policy objectives, which are predicated on the achievement and the pursuit of national priorities. This excellent
execution is also within the framework of the sustainable support and development of the region, the continent and the world.
The department is thus committed to the seven strategic priorities of the MTSF and has every intention to contribute towards the one government plan of working together with other government
departments, in order to lead in the execution of South Africa’s foreign policy, whilst including the expertise that of other government departments. As such, it is important to highlight that the
department has committed to ensuring that all programmes  will focus on gender, youth and persons with disabilities, in support of the promotion of human rights, which is critical for sustainable
development.
The current global trends compel the department to be strategic towards South Africa’s bilateral and multilateral engagements. The country strategies, developed by the business units, therefore
play a pivotal role in guiding these engagements. This is especially important in the current strained fiscal environment, which impacts on our engagement with the international community.
The department has committed to enhancing its “Economic diplomacy” towards “Commercial diplomacy”. These are key mechanisms in the achievement of national interests through diplomatic
means and complements traditional “political diplomacy”. Furthermore, in support of and in solidarity with economic development within South Africa, the department is constantly developing
mechanisms that support the Economic Recovery Reconstruction Plan, both domestically and through our missions abroad. In this process, DIRCO intends to become a catalyst and operate
as a networking agent for “South Africa Incorporated”. The missions, in particular, have a key frontline role to play in the pursuit of economic diplomacy and its component pillars such as FDI
pledges, as well as the contribution towards inbound tourism promotion. The role DIRCO plays in identifying opportunities is fundamental in order for these opportunities to be handed over to
the relevant domestic stakeholders for processing, thereby contributing towards economic growth and job creation.  In this regard, it is, therefore, difficult for DIRCO to set the targets that are
the result of the conclusion of a process that is not within its realm of responsibility.
The department will continue to strengthen its bilateral political, economic and social relations through structured bilateral mechanisms, as well as high-level visits. These will remain the pre-
eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective engagement in multilateral fora. This is also the key driver for South Africa to identify strategic opportunities for skills and
knowledge development highlighting domestic imperatives linked to international relations work.
Digital diplomacy has come to the forefront of diplomatic relations. The pandemic contributed significantly towards the innovation and elevation of traditional diplomacy towards more digital and
technological diplomacy. This aspect of diplomacy has emphasised the interconnectedness of the global system and has assisted countries to be able to innovate as far as conducting business
is concerned, in order to achieve pre-determined goals. The department will continue to enhance its digital diplomacy platforms, in order to limit physical engagement within the diplomatic fora.
The above planned performance is the department’s commitment to the interventions and targets as outlined in the MTSF, with a specific focus on priority seven, as well as the sectors identified
in priorities one to six.The department will continue to pursue increased and improved access of South African products and services to foreign markets, which will contribute to the aim of
increasing manufacturing and thereby contribute to an export-orientated economy.
The department is committed to work for the betterment of the nation, the continent and the world and will continue, in the execution of its foreign policy, by looking at both hard and soft issues.
There is a further acknowledgement and awareness that the world is changing rapidly. The department, through strategic interventions, recognises that South Africa’s foreign policy should be
agile and it, therefore, intends to remain at the forefront in order to respond to  this changing nature. This has been especially true after the COVID-19 pandemic and other wild cards.
The department should prepare for emerging and complex challenges (Brexit, the next phase of BRICS, tension on the Asian subcontinent, climate change and its impact on the continent,
migration, increased poverty, landlessness, water scarcity and unplanned international migration) and its possible impact on the delivery of our foreign policy objectives. This will be done with
a continued commitment to regional integration and the implementation of the RISDP, with a clear focus on contributing to peace, stability, socio-economic development, good governance and
democracy.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
48
 PROGRAMME 2: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 2: International Relations for the 2022 MTEF. The allocated budget for International Relations amounts to 50.0% of the total
departmental budget for the 2022/23 financial year. The budget allocation includes allocations for 116 missions in the Africa, Americas, Europe, Asia and Middle East regions. The increase in the
budget allocation for this programme is mainly on goods and services as per the escalations on contractual obligations for the leases of offices and residential accommodation abroad.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Subprogrammes
Africa    1 036 802     1 011 594  1 016 156  1 034 866  1 082 721  1 121 371  1 173 792
Asia and Middle East       941 034        969 241  981 616  933 613  928 995  980 633  1 027 267
Americas       509 243        516 373  519 977  478 070  482 642  441 230  459 020
Europe       890 397        866 652  872 343  848 785  803 597  733 751  764 079
Total    3 377 476 3 363 860 3 390 092  3 295 334  3 297 955  3 276 985  3 424 158
Economic classification Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Compensation of employees    2 073 395        2 082 477 2 079 514  1 899 405  1 890 369  1 872 827  1 956 936
Goods and services    1 273 937        1 228 485 1 238 295  1 330 582  1 362 377  1 356 112  1 422 556
Interest on rent and land                  -                        -    -    -    -    -    -
Transfers and subsidies         25 165               6 304  12 368  51 447  29 504  32 442  28 774
Payments for capital assets           4 979               2 346  3 870  13 900  15 705  15 604  15 892
Payments for financial assets              44 248  56,045  -    -    -    -
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment in January 2022
Number of posts
 filled in January 2022
Number of posts additional to
the establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 13 9 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 215 190 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 499 447 0
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 165 135 1
Total 892 781 1

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
50
PROGRAMME 3: INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
Purpose: Participate in initiatives of international organisations and institutions in line with South Africa’s national values and foreign policy objectives

Subprogramme 3.1: Global  System of Governance
Purpose: Participate in the global system of governance
Subprogramme 3.2: Contin ental Cooperation
Purpose: Strengthen socio-economic and political development of the African continent
Subprogramme 3.3: South- South Cooperation
Purpose: Strengthen South-South relations
Subprogramme 3.4: North-South Dialogue
Purpose: Strengthen relations with the strategic formations of the North

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
51
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
3.1 GLOBAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE
Proponent of
stengthening
multilateral
institutions
through
consistently
upholding
South Africa’s
principled
positions
South Africa's
interests and
the African
Agenda
promoted and
reflected in
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
dealing with
peace and
security,
human rights,
economic
and social
development
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights
and
• economic
and social
development
New indicator 85% of
resolutions
and outcomes
of multilateral
multistate
organisations
reflecting South
Africa’s interests
and the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights,
• economic
and social
development.

Twelve reports
on the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights
and
• economic
and social
development
12 reports on
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights
and
• economic
and social
development
12 reports on
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights
and
• economic
and social
development
12 reports on
the outcomes
of multilateral
and multistate
organisations
reflecting
South Africa's
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and
security,
• human rights
and
• economic
and social
devleopment
Compliance
with South
Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Number of
reports on
South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
New indicator Two reports
on the
implementation
of South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations
Two reports
on the
implementation
of South Africa’s
international
reporting
obligations

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
52
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
South Africa’s
leadership
and policy
advanced on
the regional,
continental
and global
stage
Number of
positions on
identified
influential
multilateral
bodies where
South Africa is
represented
The current level
of representation
by South Africa
at the United
Nations stands
at 63 positions,
including the
new high-level
positions
At the end of
March 2020,
the num ber
of positions
occupied by
South Africa (at
country, expert
and appointment
level) stood at 65
Not reported 60 positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
60 positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
60 positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
60 positions
on identified
influential
multilateral
bodies
maintained
3.2 CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
United and
politically
cohesive
continent that
works towards
shared
prosperity and
sustainable
development
Africa
partnerships
recalibrated for
the effective
implementation
of the African
Union’s (AU)
Agenda 2063
Number of
assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
outcomes of:
• AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
and
• Implementation
of Agenda 2063
New indicator Not achieved Two assessment
reports
reflecting how
the outcomes
of Africa
partnerships are
aligned to the AU
Agenda 2063
Two assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
outcomes of:
• AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
outcomes of:
•  AU structures
and processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063
Two assessment
reports reflecting
South Africa’s
participation and
outcomes of:
•  AU structures
and   processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation
of Agenda 2063

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
53
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
South Africa
contributes
to continental
efforts aimed
at resolving
conflicts
Number of
reports on
South Africa's
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
New indicator Country
obligations to
SADC and AU
fulfilled
100% of
South Africa’s
commitments
and efforts in
order to resolve
continental
conflicts,
honoured
Two reports on
South Africa's
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Two reports on
South Africa's
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
Two reports on
South Africa's
commitments
and efforts
towards peace
and stability on
the continent
3.3 SOUTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
South-South
relations
strengthened
and
consolidated in
advancement
of national and
continental
priorities
South-South
cooperation
utilised to
pursue South
Africa’s
national
interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Four reports on
the outcomes
of South-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
54
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
3.4 NORTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
Relations
with the North
leveraged in
advancement
of national and
continental
priorities
North-South
cooperation
utilised to
pursue South
Africa’s
national
interest and
advance the
development
agenda
Number of
reports on the
outcomes of
North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
New indicator Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda
Two reports on
the outcomes
of North-South
engagements
reflecting
South Africa’s
participation
and interests,
including that
of the African
Agenda

INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.1 GLOBAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE
Number of reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa's
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
12 reports on the outcomes
of multilateral and multistate
organisations reflecting South
Africa's participation and
interests, including that of the
African Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa's
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa's
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa's
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Three reports on the
outcomes of multilateral
and multistate organisations
reflecting South Africa's
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda on:
• peace and security
• human rights
• economic and social
development
Number of reports on South
Africa’s international reporting
obligations
Two reports on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international reporting
obligations
One report on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international reporting
obligations
One report on the
implementation of South
Africa’s international reporting
obligations
Number of positions
on identified influential
multilateral bodies where
South Africa is represented
60 positions on identified
influential multilateral bodies
maintained
Maintain 60 Maintain 60
3.2 CONTINENTAL COOPERATION
Number of assessment
reports reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
outcomes of:
• AU structures and
processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of
Agenda 2063
Two assessment reports
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and outcomes of:
• AU structures and
processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of
Agenda 2063
One assessment report
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and outcomes of:
• AU structures and
processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of
Agenda 2063
One assessment report
reflecting South Africa
participation and outcomes of:
• AU structures and
processes
• AU Partnership
• implementation of
Agenda 2063
Number of reports on South
Africa's commitments and
efforts towards peace and
stability on the continent
Two reports on South Africa's
commitments and efforts
towards peace and stability on
the continent
One report on South Africa's
commitments and efforts
towards peace and stability on
the continent
One report on South Africa's
commitments and efforts
towards peace and stability on
the continent

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
56
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.3 SOUTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
Number of reports on the
outcomes of South-South
engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the
African Agenda
Four reports on the outcomes
of South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
One report on the outcomes
of South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
One report on the outcomes
of South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
One report on the outcomes
of South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
One report on the outcomes
of South-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
3.4 NORTH-SOUTH COOPERATION
Number of reports on the
reports on the outcomes of
North-South engagements
reflecting South Africa’s
participation and interests,
including that of the African
Agenda
Two reports on the reports on
the outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the
African Agenda
One report on the reports on
the outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the
African Agenda
One report on the reports on
the outcomes of North-South
engagements reflecting South
Africa’s participation and
interests, including that of the
African Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
57
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
DIRCO is committed to continue to focus on actions to advance the development of the African continent, advance human rights, promote respectful cooperation between nations, actively
participate in achieving peaceful resolution of conflicts and support measures to achieve increased robust and inclusive economic development. These are tough aspirations in a world that
seems determined to be fractured and tense. Multilateral cooperation is thus identified as the main vehicle for advancing key foreign policy interests.
As the global landscape of power and economy is changing, aggravated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the world’s economy, the conditions for multilateralism are changing with
it. Unfortunately, it has become clear that the COVID-19 pandemic has made the attainment of the SDGs 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063 unlikely within the set timeline.
South Africa’s multilateral interests at regional level are focussed on its membership of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), at continental level, the African Union (AU) and
at global level, the United Nations (UN). Other interests which intersect with those mentioned above, include South Africa’s membership of, among others, the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM),
the G77, the G20, the Commonwealth and partnership arrangements. South Africa’s national position is informed by its domestic policy imperative and its constitutional values, and also reflects
the African Agenda on Peace and Security, Human Rights and Economic and Social Development.
Maintaining this extensive international presence becomes particularly challenging in the current fiscally constrained environment.
Regarding peace and security, South Africa will, among others, continue to focus on the implementation of the Women, Peace and Security Agenda, will continue seek membership of the
UN Peacebuilding Commission and pursue representation on the AU Peace and Security Council.  South Africa is a signatory to a number of international and regional instruments relating
to gender equality and women empowerment. These include the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) of 1995, the AU Protocol to the
African Charter on Human People’s Rights on the Rights of Women better known as the Maputo Protocol (2005) and the Southern African Development Community Protocol on Gender and
Development (2012). Gender mainstreaming continues to be a key process for instituting change and building an equal society based on respect for human rights. South Africa ratified the
Beijing Platform for Action, an agenda towards empowerment of women and girls, and made a firm commitment to mainstream gender within Government by creating the National Gender
Machinery led by the Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities. In 2021, South Africa ratified the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention 190 aimed at ending
violence and harassment in the world of work. South Africa has been appointed Chair of the Bureau for the 66th Session (2022) of the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) for 2022-23.
Bureau members serve for a period of two years.
On sustainable development, South Africa will continue to advance the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), the AU Agenda 2063 and the UN 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development, amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
South Africa will also continue to address the socio-economic and environmental consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa by continuing to play a leading role in global initiatives
to mitigate the pandemic, among others, to optimise vaccine development; to support efforts to advance equitable access to affordable and accessible COVID-19 vaccines; and to provide
additional support for debt-distressed countries to assist with post-COVID-19 economic recovery.
South Africa’s foreign policy is predicated on the principles of human rights and its engagements are premised on the need to influence norms and standards in the international human
rights system and related fields, as well as strengthening governance within the system. This is with a view to realise human rights for all, bearing in mind that they are universal, indivisible,
interdependent and inter-related. South Africa will, therefore, lobby for its election to the Human Rights Council for the term 2022 to 2024.
The global environment is increasingly shaped by rising nationalism and unilateralism, and a retreat from the traditional rules-based multilateral system of global governance will present steep
challenges to navigate in repositioning the continent as a regional economic force to be reckoned with.
South Africa remains strongly committed to and invested in support of building unity, inclusive economic development and shared prosperity for the African continent and its peoples. It will,
therefore, be incumbent on South Africa, as the outgoing Chair of the AU Troika, to be at the forefront of efforts to strengthen and capacitate the AU to more effectively address challenges such
as the COVID-19 pandemic and to harness opportunities confronting Africa in a precarious, volatile and constantly evolving and shifting geopolitical landscape.
As such, further efforts will be made to build strong, sustainable and resilient regional and continental mechanisms able to support our national efforts to deliver sustainable and inclusive
economic opportunities for South Africans, in particular women and youth, as a buffer against unrest, instability, terrorism and violent extremism on our continent.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
58
Democracy and good governance are critical to laying the foundations for sustainable development to take place in Africa. As such, South Africa has consistently called for full compliance with
the norms and instruments of the AU in support of democracy and good governance on the continent as articulated in the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance and others,
towards ensuring the achievement of sustainable and lasting peace in conflict and post-conflict settings in Africa.
The advancement of international law and a multilateral response to pressing global matters such as climate change, sustainable development, human rights law, terrorism, international criminal
law, disarmament and non-proliferation, economic relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes, will also continue. Respect for international law will carry on and form the basis for political
and economic relations.
The official South African Treaty Register will remain a source of information to assist South Africa in recording the agreements that have to be implemented and that can deliver prosperity to its
citizens. South Africa’s compliance with its international obligations to submit national reports in terms of international agreements and customary international law will continue to be monitored.
The department plans to continue to ensure compliance with all South Africa’s international reporting obligations, as well as to enhance all continental cooperation towards South-South
cooperation and North-South cooperation, while advancing the development agenda.
For South Africa to promote its national interest in the multilateral system, it must actively participate in negotiations and influence the outcomes of multilateral processes and meetings as
stipulated in the National Development Plan. South Africa will also continue to advocate for a reformed rules-based global system, which is equitable, as well as responsive, to South Africa’s
needs, and the needs of Africa and other developing countries in general.
South Africa will continue to use its membership and bilateral and multilateral engagements with groupings of the South, including BRICS, IORA and IBSA to support foreign policy objectives,
advocate for strong, mutually beneficial South-South cooperation, advocate for focussed regional integration in fast-growing markets and strengthen regional cooperation in areas of interest
with countries of the South. Our BRICS partnership continues to represent a powerful coalition of countries that ensures the centrality of multilateralism, that speaks out against unilateralism,
protectionism and populism, and that calls for the respect of international law and a reformed global order that is more equitable, inclusive and representative of current global realities.
South Africa engages with key global economic processes of the North, such as the EU, WTO, the WB, IMF, OECD, WIPO, the Group of Seven (G7) and the World Economic Forum (WEF), to
promote Agenda 2063 in particular and the broader development interests of developing countries in general.
PROGRAMME 3: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 3: System of Global Governance; Continental Cooperation; South-South Cooperation; and North-South Cooperation for the 2022
MTEF, consisting of five missions’ allocations abroad. The allocated budget amounts to 7.8% of the total departmental budget for the 2022/23 financial year.
Sub-programmes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Global System of Governance       362 224  389 715  378 536  349 440  363 877  351 916  367 796
Continental Cooperation          70 235  80 983  70 987  63 844  75 662  72 547  75 727
South-South Cooperation            4 638  5 063  4 375  5 015  5 084  5 035  5 260
North-South Dialogue          88 647  73 821  78 713  66 895  72  532  72 128  75 367
Total       525 744 549 582  532 611  485 194  517 155  501 626  524 150

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
59
Sub-programmes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Economic classification
Compensation of employees       363 160  378 361  376 575  323 986  353 913  337 209  352 351
Goods and services       153 892  160 376  137 544  154 341  159 622  160 856  167 941
Interest on rent and land                 -    -    -    -    -    -    -
Transfers and subsidies           8 407  1 962  2 264  4 239  3 276  3 202  3 483
Payments for capital assets            285 405  721  2,628  344  359  375
Payments for financial assets  8 478   15,507  -    -    -    -
Total       525 744  549 582  532 611  485 194  517 155  501 626  524 150
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment in January 2022
Number of posts
filled in January 2022
Number of posts additional to
the establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 6 5 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 57 47 1
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 148 132 0
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 34 26 0
Total 245 210 1

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
60
PROGRAMME 4: PU BLIC DIPLOMACY AND PROTOCOL SERVICES
Purpose: Communicate South Africa’s role and position in international relations in the domestic and international arenas and provide State Protocol Services

Sub-programme 4.1  Public  Diplomacy
Purpose: Promote a positive projection of South Africa’s image
Sub-programme 4.2 State Protocol and Consular Services
Purpose: Provide protocol and ceremonial services

OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
4.1 PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
Domestic
and foreign
audiences
informed of
South Africa's
foreign policy
objectives and
priorities
Rapid and
timeous support
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Number of
key messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
New indicator 25 key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Nine key
messages
distributed
to missions
on domestic
and global
developments
Platforms
utilised to
inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to
domestic and
international
audiences
Number of
platforms
utilised to
inform and
promote South
Africa’s foreign
policy to
domestic and
international
audiences
13 public
participation
programmes
(PPPs)
15 PPPs 12 PPPs held
by political
principals
where
audiences were
engaged via
webinars on
domestic and
international
developments
12 PPPs 12 PPPs 12 PPPs 12 PPPs
15 opinion
pieces
published
14 opinion
pieces
published
16  opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published
Nine opinion
pieces
published

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
62
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
OUTPUT INDICATORS ANNUAL TARGET Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of key messages distributed
to missions on domestic and global
developments
Nine key messages distributed to
missions on domestic and global
developments
Three sets of key
messages distributed to
missions on domestic and
global developments
Three sets of key
messages distributed to
missions on domestic and
global developments
Two sets of key
messages distributed to
missions on domestic and
global developments
One set of key messages
distributed to missions
on domestic and global
developments
Number of platforms utilised to inform
and promote South Africa’s foreign
policy to domestic and international
audiences
12 PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs Three PPPs
Nine opinion pieces published One opinion piece
published
Three opinion pieces
published
Three opinion pieces
published
Two opinion pieces
published

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
63
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
4.2 STATE PROTOCOL AND CONSULAR SERVICES
Improved
compliance
with the
diplomatic
regulatory
framework
Professional
protocol
services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits
Percentage
of requests
for protocol
services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% (76)
of state visit
services
rendered
100% (53)
of state visit
services
rendered
100% (18)
of protocol
services
rendered for all
incoming and
outgoing state,
official and
working visits:
• incoming:15
• outgoing:
three
100% protocol
services
rendered for all
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol
services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol
services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol
services
rendered for
incoming and
outgoing visits

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
64
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Consular services
rendered
Percentage
of requests
for consular
assistance
rendered
100% (995)
consular
services
rendered
100% (929)
consular
services
rendered
100% (30 779)
cases reported
to DIRCO were
responded to as
per the Service-
Delivery Charter:
• citizens in
distress: 30 458
• whereabouts: 3
• mortal remains:
124
• adoptions: 0
• abductions: 5
• detainees/
prisoners: 24
• services of civil
process: 149
• extraditions: 16
South African
citizens in
distress statistics
include 30 383
citizens who were
repatriated due
to the COVID-19
pandemic
100% consular
services
rendered
100% consular
services
rendered
100% consular
services
rendered
100% consular
services
rendered
Legalised
services
rendered
Percentage
of documents
legalised
100% (71 930)
documents
legalised
100% (82 644)
documents
legalised
100% (37 551)
documents
legalised
100%
documents
legalised
100%
documents
legalised
100%
documents
legalised
100%
documents
legalised

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
65
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Percentage of requests for
protocol services rendered for
incoming and outgoing visits
100% of protocol services rendered for
incoming and outgoing visits
100% protocol services
rendered for incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol services
rendered for incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol services
rendered for incoming and
outgoing visits
100% protocol services
rendered for incoming and
outgoing visits
Percentage of requests for
consular assistance rendered
100% of consular services rendered 100% consular services
rendered
100% consular services
rendered
100% consular services
rendered
100% consular services
rendered
Percentage of documents
legalised
100% of documents legalised 100% documents legalised 100% documents legalised 100% documents legalised 100% documents legalised

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
66
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
Public Diplomacy (PD)
The department, in line with the changing diplomatic environment, will continue to commit to the use all social media platforms for diplomatic purposes, thus enhancing transparency whilst
bridging the communication gap between state and individual. This has been particularly important during times of crisis management and played a fundamental role in communicating key
information to South Africans globally, especially during the pandemic. COVID-19 restrictions have heightened the need for digital diplomacy, undertaken through popular social networking sites
such as Twitter, Facebook, Linkedln, YouTube, news websites, webinars, virtual briefings and video conferencing.
The current digital revolution and technological advances remain a key interest, and there is a need to invest in new technologies to broaden PD’s current reach. As it has been effective and
beneficial in the execution of its mandate, PD aims to increase its reach on social media by expanding and strengthening its use of key social media platforms. These include platforms such as
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube to also complement Ubuntu Radio, which remains a key medium of communication in the execution of the PD Strategy and stimulation of dialogue
on issues that affect South Africa, the continent and partners across the globe.
PD will focus its budget allocation on expanding the reach of its platforms, with a specific focus on taking “foreign policy to the people”. The platforms include, but are not limited to, Ubuntu
Magazine, Ubuntu News Flash, Ubuntu Radio, Ubuntu TV, etc. These platforms inform, highlight and celebrate the achievements of government and non-state actors in projecting South Africa
positively abroad and the role played by South Africa on the international stage. Other key platforms are the Public Participation Programmes (PPPs) and annual events, including the Diplomatic
Fun Fair, Africa Day celebrations, etc. It also includes public lectures, symposia, outreach programmes and engagements with government departments and other stakeholders. The branch will
strengthen working relationships with like-minded institutions such as BrandSA, South African Tourism etc. to continue to chart a uniquely South African image that aims to bring much-needed
investment and tourism opportunities to our shores.
The Centre for Early Warning offers 24-hour communications, information, logistical and stand-by support service relating to issues relevant to DIRCO and other government departments, South
African missions abroad and the public at large, and often serves as a call centre to disseminate information during a crisis.
State Protocol and Consular Services
State Protocol will continue to provide services in line with the Vienna Convention and provision of the privileges as agreed upon by countries. These services are delivered in line with the Service
Delivery Charter. As host to one of the largest concentration of diplomats globally, the Department will continue to provide support to the Foreign Diplomatic and Consular Officials accredited to
the Republic of South Africa.  The provision of state protocol plays a pivotal role in the coordination of incoming and outgoing visits.
Consular Services provide effective and efficient consular and notarial services to South African nationals travelling, working, studying and/or living abroad. Emergency consular services can
be described as services rendered to South African nationals who are distressed, destitute or seriously injured, and assistance rendered to the next of kin in case of death or being involved in
natural or man-made disasters.
Consular notarial services are another form of consular assistance rendered to South African citizens and foreign nationals requiring South African public documents to be legalised for use
abroad. These services are rendered to provide legal validity to South African public documents to enable a person to use the documents outside South Africa. As the COVID-19 pandemic
continues, support in respect of repatriation requests remains paramount.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
67
PROGRAMME 4: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 4: Public Diplomacy and Protocol Services for the 2022 MTEF, consisting of two subprogrammes, namely: Public Diplomacy and
Protocol Services. The allocated budget amounts to 4.4% of the total departmental budget for the 2022/23 financial year. The budget allocation for the 2022/23 financial year has decreased,
resulting from the hybrid method of conducting diplomacy (virtual and face-to-face) adopted by the department.
Subprogrammes Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/2025
Public Diplomacy               78 042  69 401  47 227  58 867  54 460  52 128  54 468
Protocol Services             274 473  219 645  188 103  238 572  235 483  223 956  234 015
Total 352 515  289 046  235 330  297 439  289 943  276 084  288 483
Economic classification Audited outcome Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Compensation of employees             182 967  185 119  179 730  166 354  158 123  144 955  151 465
Goods and services             167 084  103 000  53 921  128 928  128 497  129 301  135 108
Interest on rent and land   -    -    -    -    -    -
Transfers and subsidies                    870  927  1 572  1 721  1 783  1 790  1 870
Payments for capital assets                 1 594  -    107  436  1 540  38  40
Payments for financial assets   -    -    -    -    -    -
Total 352 515  289 046  235 330  297 439  289 943  276 084  288 483
Salary band Number of posts on approved
establishment in January 2022
Number of posts
 filled in January 2022
Number of posts additional to the
establishment
Lower skilled (Levels 1-2) 0 0 0
Skilled (Levels 3-5) 22 15 0
Highly skilled production (Levels 6-8) 169 130 0
Highly skilled supervision (Levels 9-12) 135 90 0
Senior management (Levels 13-16) 24 19 0
Total 350 254 0

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
68
PROGRAMME 5: INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS
Purpose: Fund membership fees and transfer to international organisations
Sub-programme 5.1: Departmental agencies
Purpose: Facilitate transfer of funds to the public entity
Sub-programme 5.2: Membership contributions
Purpose: Facilitate transfers to international organisations

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
69
OUTCOMES, OUTPUTS, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
Outcome Outputs Output
indicators
Annual targets
Audited/actual performance Estimated
performance
MTEF period
2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Strengthen
multilateralism
through
membership
fees and
contributions
South Africa
fulfilling its
continental
and global
responsibilities
Number of
quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
No target Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
Four quarterly
reports on
payment of
South Africa’s
contributions
to international
organisations
INDICATORS, ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY TARGETS
Output indicators Annual target Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Number of quarterly reports
on payment of South Africa’s
contributions to international
organisations
Four quarterly reports on payment
of South Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
One quarterly report
on payment of South
Africa’s contributions to
international organisations
EXPLANATION OF PLANNED PERFORMANCE OVER THE MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING PERIOD
The department is committed to continue to honour all commitments undertaken by South Africa at international, regional and subregional multilateral level by ensuring that all payment
obligations are adhered to.  The payments, which are made by the department, generally take the form of:
• membership dues to orga nisations such as the United Nations (UN), African Union (AU), Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Commonwealth
• contributions to peacekee ping operations of the UN
• meetings  of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa is a member, and in which South Africa has participated
• voluntary  pledges that South Africa has made to international organisations for the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical assistance, etc.
The department, through the MTSF (2019 – 2024), requires that South Africa contributes to a better South Africa and better region and to secure the advancement of South Africa’s national
interest. To enhance this governance commitment and obligation, South Africa will ensure the realisation of all payments and contributions to international organisations in full and on time
towards the UN, SADC and the AU, including the institutions hosted in South Africa (i.e. Pan-African Parliament, New Partnership for Africa's Development, African Peer Review Mechanism,
African Commission on Nuclear Energy and Pan-African University on Space Science and trans-frontier conservation areas. This requires the settlement of all assessed contributions as required
by the respective international organisations.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
70
PROGRAMME 5: RESOURCE CONSIDERATIONS
The table below reflects the budget allocation for Programme 5: International Transfers for the 2022 MTEF, which consists of the departmental agencies’ allocation to the African Renaissance
and International Cooperation Fund and SA Development Partnership Agency as well as international membership contributions to organisations such as, among others, the AU, SADC,
UN, India-Brazil-South Africa Trust Fund, Commonwealth of Nations, etc. The allocated budget amounts to 11.6% of the total departmental budget for the 2022/23 financial year. The budget
allocation for this programme is determined based on the assessment letters from each organisation South Africa is a member of.
Subprogrammes Audited
outcome
Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Departmental agencies            38 692  46 272  47 840  59 798  61 370  62 075  64 863
Membership contribution          720 322  824 778  773 966  689 302  701 985  707 064  738 818
Total          759 014  871 050  821 806  749 100  763 355  769 139  803 681
Economic classification Audited
outcome
Adjusted
appropriation
Medium-term estimates
Rand thousand 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
Transfers and subsidies          759 014  871 050  821 806  749 100  763 355  769 139  803 681
Total          759 014  871 050  821 806  749 100  763 355  769 139  803 681

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
71

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
72
UPDATED KEY RISKS
OUTCOME KEY RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES
A modern, effective department with capable and skilled
employees that is committed to the excellent execution of South
Africa’s foreign policy

• Impact of foreign exchange fluctuations
• Outdated ICT system
• Adaptation to digital change
• Ineffective and inefficient systems
• Inadequate Head Office-Mission interface
• Continued impact of the pandemic and disruption

• Structured change management processes
• Up-skilling and reskilling of personnel
• Improve systems
• Improve support to missions
• Increase in virtual engagements
• Secure online platforms
• Blended learning methodologies
Leveraged bilateral, political, economic and social relations to
achieve the objectives of the NDP and the MTSF priorities
• Unexpected and unforeseen international developments
• Inadequate interface between some key stakeholders both at
missions and Head Office
• Continued impact of the pandemic and disruption in
traditional diplomacy
• Lack of synergy between partner departments
• To be agile and responsive to international changes, engage
in scenario planning and forecasting and to also consider
reprioritisation in response to international changes
• Enabling work environment to allow for flexibility and digital
diplomacy
• Providing support measures in the workplace
• Whole-of-government approach to develop country strategies
for engagements
Increased foreign direct investment and contributed to economic
growth in South Africa
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes, such as
COVID-19, negatively impacting the economic growth
• Sectors working in isolation
• Lack of synergy between partner departments
• Perception by foreign investors that their investments in
South Africa would not be secured/protected as a result of
a poor understanding of South Africa’s national policies,
leading to a reluctance by them to invest in the country
• To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to
international changes
• Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms
Increased regional integration • Influence from outside the region on the implementation of
the SADC programme as encapsulated in the SADC Blue
Prints
• Lack of financial resources within the SADC Secretariat in
the implementation of summit and council decisions as well
as SADC’s work programme
• Lack of political will and resources within the member states
to implement programmes and projects
• Potential for destabilising elements in the region
• Engage SADC member states bilaterally on the
implementation of SADC decisions
• To engage international cooperating partners to secure
funding without preconditions for the implementation of
identified SADC programmes/projects
• Engage SADC member states bilaterally on their respective
responsibilities to work towards the implementation of SADC
decisions
• Place South Africa as a credible interlocutor on the
international stage

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
73
OUTCOME KEY RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES
Proponent of strengthening multilateral institutions through
consistently upholding South Africa’s principled positions
• Undermining of collective initiatives aimed at strengthening
multilateralism
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes, such as
COVID-19, impacting on the ability on physical meetings and
face-to-face negotiations
• Strengthened multilateral alliances to mitigate the negative
effects of unilateral actions
• To be agile and responsive to international changes
and creating an enabling work environment to ensure
participation in virtual engagements
United and politically cohesive continent that works towards
shared prosperity and sustainable development
• Negative external actor involvement
• Potential for destabilising developments on the continent
Increased AU coordination and regional economic community
cohesion
South-South relations strengthened and consolidated in
advancement of national and continental priorities
Divisions within the South Coordinated approach to issues of common concern
Relations with the North leveraged in advancement of national
and continental priorities
• Unexpected and unforeseen international changes
• Lack of synergy between partner departments
• To be agile and consider reprioritisation in response to
international changes
• Enhance interdepartmental coordination mechanisms
• Whole-of-government approach to develop strategies for
engagements
• Improve policy coordination
Domestic and foreign audiences informed of South Africa's foreign
policy objectives and priorities
• Outdated technology
• Divergent views emanating from South Africa on foreign
policy
• Digital transformation, modernisation of ICT
• Stronger interdepartmental coordination on international
relations activities
Improved compliance with the regulatory framework
• Dependencies on key stakeholders
• Lack of cooperation with key stakeholders
• Improved communication
• Strengthen partnerships with signed memoranda of
understanding

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
74
7. PUBLIC ENTITIES
NAME OF PUBLIC ENTITY MANDATE OUTCOMES CURRENT ANNUAL BUDGET
African Renaissance and International
Cooperation Fund (ARF)
To enhance cooperation between the Republic
and other countries, in particular African
countries, through the promotion of democracy,
good governance, the prevention and resolution
of conflict, social-economic development and
integration, humanitarian assistance and human
resource development
Disbursement of development aid to enhance
cooperation between the Republic and other
countries to:
• promote democracy and good governance
• contribute to prevention and resolution of
conflict
• support socio-economic development and
integration
• provide humanitarian assistance
                   R49 699 000
8. INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
No. Project name Project description Outputs Project
start date
Project
completion
date
Total
estimated
project cost
Current year
expenditure
2021/22
1 Windhoek Staff residences:
Renovations of Staff Residences
Property renovated Property renovated 2022/23 2023/24 R 11 000 000 R 134 263
2 Mbabane Official Residence:
Major renovation to the Official
Residence
Renovate the Official Residence Property renovated 2021/22 2023/24 R 4 000 000
3 Copenhagen Chancery and
Official Residence
Attend to renovations identified
from the conditions assessments
of the properties
System repaired and replaced 2020/21 2023/24 R 12 995 000
4 Munich Official Residence:
Renovations and replacement of
systems
Attend to renovations identified
from the conditions assessments
of the properties
System repaired and replaced 2020/21 2023/24 R 30 073 000 R 311 066
5 Vienna Chancery and Official
Residence: Repairs and
replacement of systems
Replacement of sewage,
electrical systems, damp proofing
and general upgrades
System repaired and replaced 2020/21 2023/24 R 10 000 000 R 1 338 221
6 London Chancery:
Repairs and replacement of
systems
Replacement of the fire alarm
system
Systems replaced 2021/22 2023/24 R 2 233 000

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
75
No. Project name Project description Outputs Project
start date
Project
completion
date
Total
estimated
project cost
Current year
expenditure
2021/22
7 Rome Official Residence: Repairs
to the Official Residence
Attend to the repairs identified
in the technical assessment of
systems in the Chancery
Property renovated and systems
replaced
2022/23 2024/25 R 5 000 000
8 Disposal of unused properties in
various Missions
Disposal of properties Properties disposed 2021/2022 2023/24 R 7 325 553
9 New Delhi Chancery:
Construction of the new Chancery
Feasibility and project planning
for construction of a new
Chancery
New Chancery constructed 2022/23 2024/25 R 35 000 000
9. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
PPP Purpose Outputs Current Value of Agreement End Date of Agreement
Head Office accommodation for the
Department of International Relations
and Cooperation
• Financing, design, construction,
operation and maintenance of
a Head Office and guesthouse
facilities
• Financing, design, renovation
and structural maintenance of
state-owned guesthouse facility
• New Head Office and
guesthouse constructed
• Head Office and guesthouse
maintained and operated by
on-site facilities management
company
• Furniture, fittings and equipment
installed, maintained and
replaced at agreed intervals
• State-owned guesthouse
renovated and structurally
maintained
2022/23 unitary fee:
R291 055 335.31 million
per annum (including VAT)
September 2034

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
76
PART D:  TECHNICAL INDICATOR
     DESCRIPTION (TID)

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
77
PART D:  TECHNICAL INDICATOR
     DESCRIPTION (TID)

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
78
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF PROGRESS REPORTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIGITAL STRATEGY
DEFINITION In order to enhance the digital environment, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation has a detailed road map and a detailed
implementation plan of the approved strategy. In order to ensure the appropriateness, the strategy needs to be monitored and assessed to
determine the relevance of the strategic direction on concluded and ongoing identified projects.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: ICT
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Cumulative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed report
ASSUMPTIONS Buy-in from key stakeholders
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Accelerated implementation of the Digital Strategy
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief Information Officer

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
79
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF PROGRESS REPORTS ON THE AUDIT ACTION PLAN
DEFINITION It is important that the department implements the Audit Action Plan in order to improve the audit outcome from qualified to unqualified. The
department will monitor the action plan on a quarterly basis to make sure that there is progress in the prevention and correction of audit findings
SOURCE OF DATA Office of the Chief Financial Officer
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Progress on the Audit Action Plan
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed report
ASSUMPTIONS Audit Action Plan implemented and monitored, leading to improvement in audit outcome
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Unqualified audit opinion
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief Financial Officer

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
80
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON TRAINING PROGRAMMES CONDUCTED IN LINE WITH GENERIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
DEFINITION Training on skills development programmes implemented and monitored, leading to improvement in productivity and service delivery. It is
imperative that DIRCO functions optimally and proficiency is vital. Relevant skills will assist with the requirement to have excellent workmanship.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Human Resource Management and Development
METHOD OF CALCULATION /
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed report
ASSUMPTIONS Training requests received
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Training done as per Performance Development Plan
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy-Director General: Corporate Management

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
81
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON ASPECTS IMPLEMENTED TOWARDS POSITIONING THE DIPLOMATIC ACADEMY AS A CENTRE OF
EXCELLENCE IN FOREIGN SERVICE TRAINING
DEFINITION The academy is expected to deliver quality programmes that adhere to international standards and the standard for the management thereof will
be linked to have a certified Quality Management System. It is furthermore imperative that for this Diplomatic Corps to function optimally, foreign
language proficiency is vital and the academy will strive to enhance its capability to offer such. The importance of establishing partnerships and
networks with strategic institutions both at the national and international level will be prioritised in pursuit of the objective of striving to be a centre
of excellence.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Foreign Service Training and International School
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Valid ISO certificate/report, signed reports on AU languages and collaborating partnerships
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Valid ISO certificate, signed reports on AU languages and establishing partnerships.
ASSUMPTIONS Not applicable
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
In line with vulnerable groups, equity and rank
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desirable. Maintaining ISO certified QMS
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Chief Directorate: Foreign Service Training and International School

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
82
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF GENDER MAINSTREAMING INITIATIVES FOCUSSING ON WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
DEFINITION Initiatives undertaken towards creating an enabling environment for the promotion of women empowerment, youth development and for persons
with disabilities. These will include establishment of monitoring mechanisms to assess the implementation and reporting of information towards
institutionalising mainstreaming by the department.
The department will track initiatives on promoting women empowerment, youth development and for people with disabilities.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative and quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports, attendance registers, draft policy and assessment reports, templates
ASSUMPTIONS Active participation in initiatives; officials declare their disabilities
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Target for women: Six
Targets for youth: Two
Target for people with disabilities: Two
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Institutionalisation of women empowerment, youth development and people with disabilities.
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Chief Directorate: Transformation Programme and Organisational Development

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
83
INDICATOR TITLE PERCENTAGE OF LEGAL ADVICE AND SERVICES RENDERED
DEFINITION OCSLA (IL) provides legal advice, legal services and policy advice to all aspects of domestic and international law.
SOURCE OF DATA Statistics from ICSLA (IL)
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
                                                                                    Numerator
(Requests responded to)
Percentage of legal advice and services rendered =                                                                                 * 100
                                                                                                                        Denominator (Requests received)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS There are written requests for legal advice
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE On target - 100% of legal advice and services rendered
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY OCSLA (IL)

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
84
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REGIONAL POLITICAL REPORTS, INCLUDING THE OUTCOMES OF STRUCTURED BILATERAL MECHANISMS
AND HIGH-LEVEL VISITS ALIGNED TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE NDP AND MTSF
DEFINITION South Africa strengthens and consolidates its political, economic and social relations through different engagements.
The conduct of diplomacy between two states remains the pre-eminent basis for advancing national priorities, as well as for effective
engagement in multilateral fora.
Structured bilateral mechanisms regularise and govern bilateral engagements and are some of the most important and valuable foreign
policy instruments to coordinate South Africa’s positions and activities towards a particular country. Structured bilateral mechanisms refer
to numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries and is governed by a signed agreement.
These meetings usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other
high-level decisions.
High-Level meetings, for the purposes of our report, denote meetings at the level of President, Deputy President, DIRCO Minister,
Deputy Ministers, Director-General and Deputy Director-General.
It is an important platform for the entire spectrum of government-to-government relations and draws on the expertise of various
departments depending on the area of cooperation being pursued. It is of great importance to track the outcomes of these scheduled
meetings as they promote South Africa’s national priorities and interests.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS South Africa’s objectives can be pursued with the identified bilateral partner
DISAGGREGATION OF BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desired – alignment between country strategies against domestic priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
85
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORTS ON THE REGIONAL TRADE AND INVESTMENT INITIATIVES UNDERTAKEN
IN SUPPORT OF THE ONE GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT APPROACH
DEFINITION When drafting the country strategies to guide South Africa’s bilateral relations with identified countries and the continent, an assessment
will guide in terms of trade and investment opportunities. The MTSF has identified the sourcing of new markets for South African
products and increasing FDI. Through its missions, the department contributes towards economic growth in South Africa through export
and investment promotion by:
• exploring new areas for trade and investment ranging from primary, secondary and tertiary sectors
• nurturing and expanding existing trade and investment
• establishing business-to-business relations.
A quarterly progress report will reflect work done on trade promotion and sourcing of investment.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Investment opportunities exist that can be pursued
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More investment and trade opportunities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
86
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REGIONAL REPORTS ON THE TOURISM-PROMOTION EVENTS TO PROMOTE SOUTH AFRICA AS A PREFERRED
TOURIST DESTINATION, THEREBY CONTRIBUTING TOWARDS GROWTH IN THE TOURISM SECTOR IN SUPPORT OF THE
ONE GOVERNMENT TOURISM APPROACH
DEFINITION Engagements in tourism events with sector role-players (travel agencies and tour operators) in host governments in a concerted effort
to promote South Africa as a favorable tourism destination for business and leisure (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events) and
as a safe and value-for-money destination of choice. The aim of tourism promotion is to contribute to growth in the tourism sector. It is
also part of the missions’ activities to promote South Africa at events such as national days. It is also important for missions to identify
opportunities for increased international tourist arrivals to South Africa, as well as the barriers.
SOURCE OF DATA Bilateral branches
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Tourism-promotion events take place within the limitations of the global pandemic
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desired – an increase in tourist arrivals to contribute towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Directors-General: Bilateral branches

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
87
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF ASSESSMENT REPORTS OF SOUTH AFRICA’S CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS:
• PEACE AND STABILITY
• SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
• GOOD GOVERNANCE AND DEMOCRACY
• THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RISDP
DEFINITION South Africa participates in continental meetings and structures in order to advance the national agenda and the needs to regularly assess its
participation against the regional integration agenda. SADC has developed a RISDP for member states with specific projects to advance regional
integration.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: SADC
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Partner departments submit the required information, indicating if there is progress in South Africa against the prioritised projects in the RISDP
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Effective contribution towards peace, stability, socio-economic development, good governance, democracy and regional integration; and the
implementation of the revised RISDP towards the achievement of South Africa's domestic priorities
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Africa Bilateral

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
88
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON THE OUTCOMES OF MULTILATERAL AND MULTISTATE ORGANISATIONS REFLECTING SOUTH AFRICA'S
PARTICIPATION AND INTERESTS, INCLUDING THAT OF THE AFRICAN AGENDA ON:
• PEACE AND SECURITY
• HUMAN RIGHTS
• ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
DEFINITION South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities for South Africa itself as reflected in the NDP, as well
as to advance the objectives of Agenda 2063 and Agenda 2030.
A limitation on the indicator performance is that South Africa is not in control of the outcomes of multilateral meetings and structures. Whether or
not South Africa's national interests are reflected in these outcomes depends on negotiated agreements and consensus reached. In many cases,
the outcome represents the lowest common denominator.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Simple addition
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Interdepartmental meetings taking place to agree on South Africa’s position, having the country’s position approved prior to South Africa’s
participation at international fora
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE South Africa’s foreign policy objective pursued in areas of peace and security, human rights and economic and social development
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
89
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON SOUTH AFRICA'S INTERNATIONAL REPORTING OBLIGATIONS
DEFINITION South Africa has an international obligation to submit national reports in terms of international agreements it is a party to. Line-function departments
submit national reports, while DIRCO monitors the submission of the reports and provides feedback to Cabinet.
SOURCE OF DATA Office of the Chief State Law Adviser
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS The partner departments provide the required reports as per the reporting obligations
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annual
DESIRED PERFORMANCE South Africa is 100% compliance with submitting national reports
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Office of the Chief State Law Adviser

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
90
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF POSITIONS ON IDENTIFIED INFLUENTIAL MULTILATERAL BODIES WHERE SOUTH AFRICA IS REPRESENTED
DEFINITION South Africa has to identify and take up positions at influential multilateral bodies where we are represented. Most of these positions are available
on rotational basis and, once available, South Africa needs to field a suitable candidate and lobby for support in order to get the candidate elected.
South Africa is represented at identified multilateral bodies to promote its national interests and to influence resolutions, decisions and outcomes.
Representation can be both at country level and at expert level.
SOURCE OF DATA Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports
ASSUMPTIONS Positions in the multilateral bodies in which South Africans citizens has skills and may be appointed exist
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annual
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More South African experts representated in multilateral bodies
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Global Governance and Continental Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
91
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF ASSESSMENT REPORTS REFLECTING THE SOUTH AFRICA'S PARTICIPATION AND OUTCOMES OF:
• THE AU STRUCTURES AND PROCESS
• AU PARTNERSHIPS AND
• IMPLEMENTATION OF AGENDA 2063
DEFINITION South Africa participates in the AU and its organs to advance the First Ten Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063 and it’s identified flagship
projects. The engagement is informed by South Africa's vision of an African continent, which is prosperous, peaceful, democratic, non-racial, non-
sexist and united, and which contributes to a world that is just and equitable. South Africa therefore endeavours to contribute to the operationalisation
of identified Agenda 2063 flagship projects.
South Africa’s multilateral engagements are premised on the need to advance the priorities for South Africa itself as reflected in the NDP, as well as
to advance the objectives of Agenda 2063 and Agenda 2030. South Africa is not in control of the outcomes of multilateral meetings and structures.
Whether or not South Africa's national interests are reflected in these outcomes depends on negotiated agreements and consensus reached. In
many cases, the outcome represents the lowest common denominator.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Outcomes report or submissions on AU structures and process, AU partnerships and implementation of Agenda 2063
ASSUMPTIONS The relevant partner departments that lead the flagship projects within their mandate submit the information to DIRCO
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More flagship projects implemented or operationalised
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
92
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON SOUTH AFRICA'S COMMITMENTS AND EFFORTS TOWARDS PEACE AND STABILITY ON THE CONTINENT
DEFINITION South Africa participates in AU structures and processes charged with the promotion of peace and security on the continent, which include the
AU Peace and Security Council (AU Post-Reconstruction and Development Committee on Sudan), among others. These fora are engaged
with a view to strengthen the African Peace and Security Architecture by supporting the operationalisation of the African Standby Force and the
Continental Early Warning System.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Approved programmes of action, outcome reports, South Africa’s submissions to AU processes and communiqués, decisions and declarations
issued by the AU and its various organs (not signed)
ASSUMPTIONS Commitments and the resultant efforts for South Africa to resolve continental conflicts as derived from outcomes from AU processes and meetings
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Fulfil all commitments to resolve continental conflicts
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
93
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON THE OUTCOMES OF SOUTH-SOUTH ENGAGEMENTS REFLECTING SOUTH AFRICA’S PARTICIPATION AND
INTERESTS, INCLUDING THAT OF THE AFRICAN AGENDA
DEFINITION Participation in meetings and organisations of developing countries, commonly referred to as countries of the South, allows for the development
of common positions that reflect the needs of the developing countries and aim to exert greater influence in pursuing these positions within
multilateral forums. This also relates to minilateral/plurilateral arrangements (e.g. BRICS). There are objectives for South Africa’s engagements
and its participation aims to achieve those objectives.
SOURCE OF DATA Branch: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed reports. In instances where there is more than one report provided, confirmation that the reports provided constitute one report for all
South-South engagements will be added.
ASSUMPTIONS The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More outcomes on identified objectives
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Global Governance and Continental Agenda
Deputy Director-General: Asia and Middle East

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
94
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF REPORTS ON THE OUTCOMES OF NORTH-SOUTH ENGAGEMENTS REFLECTING SOUTH AFRICA’S PARTICIPATION AND
INTERESTS, INCLUDING THAT OF THE AFRICAN AGENDA
DEFINITION Strategic formations of the developed countries, usually referred to as countries of the North, are engaged to garner support for the African Agenda
and the Agenda of the South. These are countries usually considered to have influence in the global arena and also with resources that can be
channeled to the developing world. South Africa has identified what it wants to achieve through each of these engagements and needs to regularly
assess whether it is achieving those objectives.
SOURCE OF DATA Regional organisations (TICAD, EU)
METHOD OF CALCULATION Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed submission / report
ASSUMPTIONS The negotiated outcomes are in line with the identified objectives
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Bi-annually
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More negotiated outcomes in line with South African objectives
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Regional organisations

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
95
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF KEY MESSAGES DISTRIBUTED TO MISSIONS ON DOMESTIC AND GLOBAL DEVELOPMENTS
DEFINITION In order to have a better understanding and awareness of South Africa's foreign policy and communicate it through professional public diplomacy
services, the department will, in conjunction with the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), facilitate key messages to
be distributed to missions on political, economic and global developments. This will assist the missions to disseminate one message on key
developments.
SOURCE OF DATA Public Diplomacy
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Key messages issued by Public Diplomacy as received from GCIS on political, economic and global developments
ASSUMPTIONS Key messages are available to be distributed
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More key messages issued
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Public Diplomacy

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
96
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF PLATFORMS UTILISED TO INFORM AND PROMOTE SOUTH AFRICA’S FOREIGN POLICY TO DOMESTIC AND
INTERNATIONAL AUDIENCES
DEFINITION Different platforms are utilised by the principals, i.e. Minister and Deputy Ministers, to engage on domestic and international developments such
as PPPs and opinion pieces
A PPP is an outreach, conducted by the political principal, during which domestic audiences are engaged on foreign policy. Political principals may
be represented by the DG, DDG or any nominated official.
An opinion piece is a written expression of thoughts on a particular political issue.
SOURCE OF DATA Public Diplomacy
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION PPPs: Signed reports
Opinion pieces: published opinion pieces
ASSUMPTIONS Not applicable
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE More PPPs and opinion pieces published
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Public Diplomacy

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
97
INDICATOR TITLE PERCENTAGE OF REQUESTS FOR PROTOCOL SERVICES RENDERED FOR INCOMING AND OUTGOING VISITS
DEFINITION Incoming and outgoing visits for the President, Deputy President and their counterparts in compliance with relevant legislation.
Categories of dignitaries:
Heads of State or Government, spouses of Heads of State or Government, internationally recognised Kings/Queens at the level of a Head
of State, Deputy Heads of State/Government, former Heads of State/Government, Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International Relations, Deputy
Ministers of Foreign Affairs/International Relations, Heads and Deputy Heads of Multilateral and Regional Organisations, as determined by the
policy on incoming international visits and eminent persons, as may be determined by the Director-General of DIRCO.
Categories of visits:
State visits, official visits, working visits, special visits, bi-national and joint commissions, conferences and summits, special envoys and private
visits. Transit visits are excluded.
SOURCE OF DATA State Protocol and Consular Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
                                                                                         Numerator
(Requests responded to)
Percentage of requests for protocol services rendered =                                                                             * 100
                                                                                                                             Denominator (Requests received)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed quarterly schedules for confirmed facilitated international visits of principals, including initiation and signed/approved exit reports and/or
submissions
ASSUMPTIONS Written requests. Delayed notifications, which might allow very little lead time and/or notifications might only be received during or post a visit.
Sufficient resources.
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE All requests received responded to
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
98
INDICATOR TITLE PERCENTAGE OF REQUESTS FOR CONSULAR ASSISTANCE RENDERED
DEFINITION To render consular services and to protect the interests of all South Africans abroad as contemplated in the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations, 1963. To monitor assistance provided by DIRCO to South Africa citizens abroad as per the Vienna Convention governing consular
relations.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Consular Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
                                                                                       Numerator
(Requests responded to)
Percentage of requests for consular services rendered =                                                                                 * 100
                                                                                                                           Denominator (Requests received)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed statistics / report
ASSUMPTIONS Confirmation that requests are received from South African citizens and all relevant stakeholders have been communicated to
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE All requests responded to
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
99
INDICATOR TITLE PERCENTAGE OF DOCUMENTS LEGALISED
DEFINITION Documents for use abroad are legalised and authenticated by the department.
Documents accepted for legalisation are processed in accordance with the guidelines set in the Service Delivery Charter. Legalisation is guided
by Chapter 20 of the Consular Handbook.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Consular Services
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
The following formula is used to calculate:
                                                          Numerator
(Requests responded to)
Percentage of documents legalised =                                                                           * 100
                                                                                  Denominator (Requests received)
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Signed statistics/reports/registers
ASSUMPTIONS The authorised signatures for partner departments are available
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Non-cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Respond to all requests received
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: State Protocol and Consular Services

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
100
INDICATOR TITLE NUMBER OF QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PAYMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA’S CONTRIBUTION TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS
DEFINITION The department is required to transfer payments, which arise from obligations undertaken by South Africa at an international, regional and
subregional multilateral levels. The payments, which are made by the department, generally take the form of:
membership dues to organisations such as the UN, AU, SADC and the Commonwealth
contributions to peacekeeping operations of the UN
meetings of state parties (parties to international treaties) of which South Africa is a member
 , and in which South Africa has participated
voluntary pledges that South Africa makes to international organisations for the purpose of humanitarian assistance, technical assistance, etc.
It should be noted that the payment depends on the assessment letters received from the international organisations.
SOURCE OF DATA Chief Directorate: Financial Management
METHOD OF CALCULATION/
ASSESSMENT
Quantitative
MEANS OF VERIFICATION Proof of payment
ASSUMPTIONS Sufficient funds available
DISAGGREGATION OF
BENEFICIARIES (WHERE
APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
SPATIAL TRANSFORMATION
(WHERE APPLICABLE)
Not applicable
CALCULATION TYPE Cumulative
REPORTING CYCLE Quarterly
DESIRED PERFORMANCE Higher performance is desirable and all payments made within the period due
INDICATOR RESPONSIBILITY Deputy Director-General: Financial and Assets Management

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
101
Glossary of terminology
African Continental Free Trade
Area (AfCFTA)
The establishment of the AfCFTA, which entered into force on 30 May 2019, is a key priority of Africa´s Agenda 2063 and a flagship project for the continent. The AfCFTA is the
world’s largest single market of over 1.2 billion consumers, stimulating intra-Africa trade and investment and growing gross domestic product to US$3.4 trillion.
African Agenda South Africa’s future is inextricably linked to that of Africa. The continent is therefore the cornerstone of South Africa’s foreign policy. The concept and term, African Agenda,
has been developed to describe the principal motive underpinning South Africa’s foreign policy for the last more than 20 years. This African Agenda rests on five key pillars:
contribute to regional and continental peace, security, stability and sustainable development through the African Union (AU); advance Africa’s socio-economic development
through the New Partnership for Africa’s Development; strengthen effective governance through mechanisms such as the African Peer Review Mechanism; seek cooperation
through international partnerships in support of Africa’s development; and develop regional economic communities as the building blocs for continental economic development
and integration.
African values of Ubuntu/
Diplomacy of Ubuntu
South Africa is a multifaceted, multicultural and multiracial country that embraces the concept of Ubuntu as a way of defining who we are and how we relate to others. The
philosophy of Ubuntu means “humanity” and is reflected in the idea that we affirm our humanity when we affirm the humanity of others. It has played a major role in the forging
of a South African national consciousness and in the process of its democratic transformation and nation-building.
South Africa’s unique approach to global issues has found expression in the concept of Ubuntu. These concepts inform our particular approach to diplomacy and shape our
vision of a better world for all. This philosophy translates into an approach to international relations that respects all nations, peoples and cultures. It recognises that it is in
our national interest to promote and support the positive development of others.
South Africa therefore accords central importance to its immediate African neighbourhood and continent; working with countries of the South to address shared challenges
of underdevelopment; promoting global equity and social justice; working with countries of the North to develop a true and effective partnership for a better world; and doing
our part to strengthen the multilateral system, including its transformation, to reflect the diversity of our nations and ensure its centrality in global governance.
Agenda 2063 Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic
framework that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development and is a concrete manifestation of the Pan-African drive for unity, self-determination,
freedom, progress and collective prosperity pursued under Pan-Africanism and the African Renaissance The genesis of Agenda 2063 was the realisation by African leaders
that there was a need to refocus and reprioritise Africa’s agenda from the struggle against apartheid and the attainment of political independence for the continent, which had
been the focus of the Organisation of African Unity, the precursor of the AU; and instead to prioritise inclusive social and economic development, continental and regional
integration, democratic governance and peace and security, among other issues, aimed at repositioning Africa to becoming a dominant player in the global arena.
AUPCRD Committee on Sudan The AU Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development Ministerial Committee on Sudan was established in July 2003 to facilitate post-conflict  reconstruction and development
efforts in that country.
Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) China’s BRI aims to connect Asia, Europe and Africa along five routes. The infrastructure projects, which are part of the BRI, mostly run through some of China’s poorest and
least developed regions and could provide a stimulus to help cushion the effects of the deepening slowdown of the Chinese economy. China is also hoping that, by improving
connectivity between its underdeveloped southern and western provinces, its richer eastern coast, and the countries along its periphery, the BRI will improve China’s internal
economic integration and competitiveness and spur more regionally balanced growth. Moreover, the construction is intended to help make use of China’s enormous industrial
overcapacity and ease the entry of Chinese goods into regional markets.
Bilateral relations Bilateral relations are mainly conducted through formally accredited missions that spearhead on a daily basis the promotion of the national interests of the sending country.
These relations cover a wide spectrum such as political, economic, science and technology, defence, consular and development cooperation, and tourism, among others.
South Africa conducts its diplomatic relations through 125 missions in 108 countries under the control of the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO).

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
102
Bi-National and Joint
Commission
Bi-national and joint commissions are regularised and formalised meetings undertaken by mutual agreement between South Africa and the Joint Commissions participating
country. These meetings take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions.
Bretton Woods Institutions The International Monetary Fund and International Bank of Reconstruction and Development were created by the Bretton Woods Agreement at the United Nations (UN)
Monetary and Financial Conference in 1944 to manage global economic and financial relations.
Disarmament and non-
proliferation
A system of multilateral agreements, conventions and controls in which all states can equally participate and which is aimed at ridding the world of non-proliferation weapons
of mass destruction and limiting the spread and control the use of conventional weapons, including small-arms and light weapons.
Early Warning A concept utilised in conflict prevention referring to diplomatic analysis and reporting by states and regional bodies with the aim of preventing the outbreak of large-scale
conflict through appropriate preventative diplomacy.
Economic diplomacy
Economic diplomacy is the overall diplomatic contribution by DIRCO towards the implementation of South Africa’s foreign policy priorities and national  priorities, which are
underpinned in the Economic Diplomacy Strategic Framework (EDSF). This framework is for South African missions abroad, supported by Head Office, to successfully drive
the country’s national interests, thus contributing towards the country’s growth and development plan in the fields of tourism, trade and investment.
First 10-year Implementation
Plan (FTYIP)
The FTYIP of Agenda 2063 (2013 – 2023) is the first in a series of five 10-year plans over the 50-year horizon of Agenda 2063’s time frame.
The aims of developing the 10-year plans are to:
• identify priority areas, set specific targets and define strategies and policy measures required to implement the FTYIP of Agenda 2063
• bring to fruition the fast-track programmes and initiatives outlined in the Malabo Decisions of the AU to provide the big push and breakthroughs for Africa’s economic
and social transformation
• provide information to all key stakeholders at national, regional and continental levels on the expected results/outcomes for the first 10 years of the plan and assign
responsibilities to all stakeholders in its implementation, monitoring and evaluation
• outline the strategies required to ensure availability of resources and capacities together with citizens’ engagement in the implementation of the FTYIP.
The goals and priority areas of the FTYIP were influenced by four key factors:
• the flagship projects/programmes of Agenda 2063
• near term national and regional economic communities’ (RECs) development priorities
• continental frameworks
• Agenda 2063 Results Framework.
Fourth Industrial Revolution
(4IR)
The 4IR refers to a series of social, political, cultural, and economic upheavals that will unfold over the 21st century. Building on the widespread (4IR)  availability of digital
technologies that were the result of the Third Industrial, or Digital Revolution,  the 4IR will be driven largely by the convergence of digital, biological and physical innovations,
such as the fifth-generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks, the Internet of Things, machine learning, artificial intelligence, genome editing, augmented reality,
robotics and 3-D printing.
These technologies are rapidly changing the way humans  create, exchange and distribute value. The result of all this is  societal transformation  at a global scale. By affecting
the incentives, rules and norms of economic life, it transforms how we communicate, learn, entertain ourselves and relate to one another and how we understand ourselves
as human beings. Furthermore, the sense that new technologies are being developed and implemented at an increasingly rapid pace has an impact on human identities,
communities and political structures.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
103
Global balance of forces The global system is still characterised by primary unipolarity and secondary multipolar features. This is reflected, among others, in the emergence of China as a world
power and the rise of Asia, and the quasi-autonomy of regional alliances such as the European Union (EU), Latin American states, BRICS and other such cross-regional
partnerships.
It also refers to how a country or grouping protects itself against another nation or group of nations by matching its power against the power of the other side.
Global multilateral system of
governance
This refers to a rules-based international system in which priorities in the economic, social welfare, human rights and security areas, aimed at improving the quality of life of all
South African citizens, peoples of Africa and the rest of the developing world, are advanced. Bearing in mind the centrality of the UN Charter and the principles of international
law, South Africa promotes these global development, social, security and human rights issues through participation in the international debate, notably the UN system, its
specialised agencies and other international fora, in order to promote a responsive and accountable global governance system to better answer the needs of vulnerable and
developing countries.
High-Level Meeting The term, High-Level Meeting, is often employed to denote meetings of ministers and above. The content of these meetings could be the same for state and official visits.
India, Brazil, South Africa
(IBSA Fund)
The IBSA Fund for the Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger has undertaken various projects in 21 partner countries. Since its inception in 2006, the fund has disbursed US$36
million in financial contributions with the aim of facilitating the implementation of 27 projects. The fund has been providing a unique opportunity for strengthening trilateral
cooperation with developing countries through a steady flow of resources and continues to play an important role in sharing their respective developmental experiences.
Joint Comprehensive Plan of
Action (JCPOA)
The JCPOA, more commonly known as the Iran nuclear deal or Iran deal, is an agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme between Iran and the P5+1 (the five permanent
members of the UN Security Council: China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States [US], plus Germany) together with the EU. On 8 May 2018, former President
Donald Trump announced the US’ withdrawal from the JCPOA.
Major international
conferences
South Africa places great emphasis on multilateralism and the reform of global governance. To contribute to a better world and the reform of global governance, South Africa
has hosted some major international conferences, the outcomes of which contribute to the advancements of humanity. DIRCO has a special responsibility to follow up on the
outcomes and decisions of all major international conferences hosted since 1990.
Medium Term Strategic
Framework (MTSF)
The MTSF is a high-level strategic document to guide the five-year implementation and monitoring of the National Development Plan 2030. In line with the electoral mandate,
it identifies the priorities to be undertaken during 2019 to 2024 to put the country on a positive trajectory towards the achievement of the 2030 vision. It sets targets for the
implementation of the priorities and interventions for the five-year period and states the outcomes and indicators to be monitored.
The seven priorities derived from the 2019 electoral mandate and State of the Nation Address are:
• Priority 1: Economic Transformation and Job Creation
• Priority 2: Education, Skills and Health
• Priority 3: Consolidating the Social Wage through Reliable and Quality Basic Services
• Priority 4: Spatial Integration, Human Settlements and Local Government
• Priority 5: Social Cohesion and Safe Communities
• Priority 6: A Capable, Ethical and Developmental State
• Priority 7: A Better Africa and World.
Multilateralism A global system of interaction between states, which is particularly important to small and medium-sized states as it gives all participating states  an equal voice and stake in
programmes, projects and actions to address issues that affect their interests, those of their region and issues of global concern. This multilateral rules-based system is the
main counterbalance to unilateral and collective actions undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
104
Multilateral Rules-based
System
This system comprises all the UN bodies, agencies, funds, programmes and related organisations in association with the UN, as well as conventions and agreements that
provide for inclusive and equal participation by all states.
Official visit An Official Visit is the second-highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and is undertaken at the invitation of the host to the relevant foreign counterpart. It
takes place more frequently than a State Visit and can involve a Head of State or Government, Deputy Head of State/Government, Minister/Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs/
International Relations. Ceremonial and protocol honours accorded are scaled down depending on the rank of the visiting counterpart. The duration of an Official Visit will
not exceed three days (two nights). An extension of an Official Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion of the host. An extension of an Official Visit beyond the set
period without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Pluralistic
A pluralistic  society is a diverse one, where the people in it believe all kinds of different things and tolerate each other’s beliefs even when they don’t match their own.
Pluralism is a social philosophy  that seeks to allow many different viewpoints to coexist within a larger structure. A pluralist society, system of government or organisation
contains many groups that keep their identities while also participating in the larger group.
Plurilateral A plurilateral agreement is a multinational legal or trade agreement between countries. In economic jargon, it is an agreement between more than two countries, but not a
great many, which would be a multilateral agreement.
Private Visit A Private Visit is an unofficial visit undertaken by a foreign dignitary as outlined by the policy on incoming international visits and includes, but not restricted to, private
business, medical treatment or holiday purposes.
Promotion of the multilateral
system
Promoting the use and strengthening of the multilateral system of collective decision-making between states and countering the damaging effects of unilateral and collective
actions undertaken by big and powerful states that exclude small and medium states such as South Africa.
Regional economic
integration
South Africa’s foreign policy is anchored in domestic priorities with the main aim of consolidating regional integration with particular emphasis on improving the political and
economic integration of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). SADC and the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) are primary vehicles for regional
economic integration. They are important building blocs to achieve the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA)-East African Community (EAC)- SADC
Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA) and the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).
SADC’s integration agenda is anchored in two tracks, namely political and security integration and economic integration. Critical to the objectives of regional economic
integration is the realisation of the TFTA, as well as the AfCFTA, both aimed at boosting industrial and infrastructure development and enhancing intra-regional trade.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
105
Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan (RISDP)
The RISDP is a comprehensive development and implementation framework guiding the  regional integration  agenda of the SADC over a period of 15 years (2005 – 2020). It
is designed to provide clear strategic direction with respect to SADC programmes, projects and activities in line with the SADC Common Agenda  and strategic priorities, as
enshrined in the SADC Treaty of 1992. The original plan was approved by the SADC Summit in 2003.Trough concrete priorities, programmes and targets, the RISDP allows
all parties involved to keep track of progress made, and to obtain guidance for prioritisation. The ultimate objective of the plan is to  deepen integration in the region with a
view to accelerate poverty eradication and the attainment of other economic and non-economic development goals.
Priority areas of the RISDP:
• Trade and Economic Liberalisation
• Regional Infrastructure and Services Development for Regional Integration
• Sustainable Food Security
• Social and Human Development
• Cross-cutting Issues, including Gender and Development, HIV and AIDS, Science and Technology, Environment and Sustainable Development, Private Sector, and
Statistics.
Repositioning of the UN
Development
System (UNDS)
In May 2018, the UN General Assembly (UNGA) adopted a landmark consensus resolution on the repositioning of the UNDS, with the aim of better supporting member
states towards the realisation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop¬ment). South Africa actively participated in the negotiations at the UN in New York to ensure that
the UN Development Agenda continues to remain compatible with the development agenda of South Africa and the South, as well as AU aspirations.
Senior Officials’ Meeting The most common meetings are between senior officials, i.e. below Cabinet level. Meetings of this nature often convene to prepare for high-level meetings, exchange
information and ideas, discuss technical issues, negotiate and draft agreements and communiqués/declarations, assess the implementation of previous agreements and/or
decisions, as well as to clarify positions and develop common positions on issues of mutual interest.
Special Visit A Special Visit is undertaken by a foreign dignitary at the invitation of the Republic of South Africa, to represent their country or organisation (e.g. the inauguration of a Head
of State, ad-hoc meetings etc.) or attend a specific occasion (e.g. State funeral, etc.).
State Visit A State Visit is the highest level of diplomatic contact between two countries and involves a formal visit by one Head of State to another. It takes place at the invitation of the
President of the Republic of South Africa and the recommendation of the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation. During a State Visit, full ceremonial honours
are accorded to a foreign Head of State. The duration of a State Visit is three days (two nights). An extension of a State Visit beyond the set period will be at the discretion
of the President of the Republic of South Africa. Extension of a State Visit beyond the set period without the approval of the President will be categorised as a Private Visit.
Strategic Partnership A Strategic Partnership, such as that of the Africa-, provides an overarching long-term framework for intercontinental relations aimed at promoting economic cooperation,
sustainable development, peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity for the benefit of its members.
Strengthen relations This terminology generally refers to diplomatic actions aimed at expanding and deepening the political, trade, social, financial, economic security relationship and interactions
between South Africa and another state. These actions can take many forms but usually pertain to state visits, official visits, working visits, structured bilateral mechanisms
and the daily activities of diplomatic missions.

Structured bilateral mechanism A structured bilateral mechanism is a terminology reflecting the numerous regularised and formalised meetings that South Africa has with other countries. These meetings
usually take place in an agreed format and time frame pursuant to bilateral communiqués, agreements and/or other high-level decisions. They usually comprise subcommittees
or technical committees dealing with issues such as global governance, Africa, strengthening trade and investment relations, tourism promotion, science and technology
cooperation, etc. Ministers and senior officials of departments concerned usually co-chair these subcommittees. Structured bilateral mechanisms are co-chaired from the
President downwards to the level of senior officials. These meetings usually meet under various designations such as a bi-national commission, joint commission, partnership
forum, policy dialogue forum, policy forum, etc. The meetings usually alternate between the countries concerned and can take place every six months, annually and in certain
cases every two years, depending on the importance of the issues on the agenda and the availability of the relevant ministers and senior officials. The structured bilateral
mechanism is one of the most important and valuable foreign policy instruments for DIRCO to coordinate South African positions and activities towards a particular country
and to advance South Africa’s key priorities.
Tripartite Free Trade Area
(TFTA)
The TFTA is an initiative between three RECs, namely: COMESA, the EAC and SADC and will be achieved by amalgamating the economies of the three regions with a
combined market of 26 countries, which constitute half of the member states of the AU, a population of 625 million people and a combined GDP of US$833 billion. The TFTA
is anchored on three pillars; market integration, infrastructure development, and industrial development and is a precursor to the vision of realising an economically integrated
continent.
United Nations (UN)
Development Agenda
The UN Development Agenda was negotiated in New York as a follow-up to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The result was the adoption of 17 Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), under the heading: “Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, in 2015. South Africa was among countries that
were at the forefront of negotiating the development agenda.
United Nations Sustainable
Development
Goals (SDGs)
The aim of the SDGs is to end poverty and hunger globally; combat inequalities within and among countries; build peaceful, just and inclusive societies; protect human rights;
promote gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls; and ensure the lasting protection of the planet and its natural resources. Countries committed to the
SDGs aim to create the conditions for sustainable, inclusive and sustained economic growth, shared prosperity and decent work for all, taking into account different levels of
national development and capacities. The SDGs are integrated and indivisible and balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: the economic, the social and
the environmental. There are 17 SDGs, demonstrating the scale and ambition of this global agenda.
Goal 1: No poverty
Goal 2: Zero hunger
Goal 3: Good health and well-being
Goal 4: Quality education
Goal 5: Gender equality
Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation
Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy
Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth
Goal 9: Industry, innovation, and infrastructure
Goal 10: Reduced inequalities
Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production
Goal 13: Climate action
Goal 14: Life below water
Goal 15: Life on land
Goal 16: Peace, justice, and strong institutions
Goal 17: Partnership for the goals

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
107
United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA)
The North American Free Trade Agreement was renegotiated and replaced by the USMCA. The latter is expected to reshape North American economic relations and is in
line with former President Trump’s aim to give American manufacturers an advantage over their competitors and again increased market access for US farmers into the
Canadian dairy market. On 20 June 2019, the Senate of Mexico ratified the agreement. Mexico's ratification procedure will be completed when the President announces the
ratification in the Federal Register. The processes to ratify the agreement by the US and Canada are not completed yet.
Visit by Eminent Persons The Director-General (DG) of DIRCO determines the guests who would be accorded a status of Eminent Persons for a particular visit. The Planning Committee of the specific
visit, in consultation with the DG, decides on the courtesies to be accorded.
Visit by Special Envoy A Special Envoy is a Representative appointed by a Head of State/Government or Head of Multilateral and Regional Organisation in order to convey an official message to
the President or Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa.  This visit is taken at the initiative of the visiting country. Courtesies to be accorded are informed by the
level of the Special Envoy.
Working Visit A Working Visit is undertaken at the initiative of the foreign counterpart/dignitary without a formal invitation from a South African counterpart. It requires prior approval from a
South African counterpart. A visiting foreign counterpart/dignitary is not accorded full ceremonial honours. The duration of a Working Visit will not exceed two days (one night).
An extension of a Working Visit beyond the set period without the approval of the host will be categorised as a Private Visit.

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
108
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A
ACP  African, Caribbea n and Pacific Group of States
AfCFTA  African Continenta l Free Trade Agreement
AGOA  Africa Growth and Opportunity Act
AUC   African Union Com mission
AU   African Union
AUPSC   AU Peace and Se curity Council
B
BRICS   Brazil, Russia, Ind ia, China and South Africa
C
COMESA  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CAHOSCC  Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change
D
DDG   Deputy Director-G eneral
DG   Director-General
DIRCO   Department of International Relations and Cooperation
DTRD  Diplomatic Training, Research and Development
E
EAC   East Africa Community
EPA   Economic Partner ship Agreement
EU   European Union
G
G77   Group of 77 (plus  China)
I
IBSA   India, Brazil and S outh Africa Dialogue Forum
IMF  International Mon etary Fund
IORA   Indian Ocean Rim  Association
M
MTSF  Medium Term Strategic Framework
N
NDP  National Developm ent Plan
NSDS  National Skills De velopment Strategy

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
109
O
OECD   Organisation for E conomic Cooperation and Development
PPTA  Preferential Trade Agreement
R
RISDP   Regional Indicativ e Strategic Development Plan
S
SACU   Southern African Customs Union
SADC   Southern African Development Community
SDGs  Sustainable Deve lopment Goals
T
TFTA  T ripartite Free Trade Area
TIDCA  T rade, Investment and Development Cooperation Agreement
TNPW  T reaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons
U
UN   United Nations
UNDP   United Nations De velopment Programme
UNSC   United Nations Se curity Council
W
WEF  W orld Economic Forum
WIPO   W orld Intellectual Property Organisation
WTO  W orld Trade Organisation
ANNEXURE “A”
Amendment to the 2020 – 2025 Strategic Plan to include the outcome for Programme 5: International Transfers:
Outcome Outcome Indicator Baseline Five-year target
Strengthen multilateralism through membership
fees and contributions
South Africa membership fees paid in full
on time Not available 100% of membership fees paid in full and on time

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
110

2022/23 DIRCO ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN
111