seed_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_magazine_11_compressed-1.pdf
final_url: https://www.dirco.gov.za/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/ubuntu_magazine_11_compressed-1.pdf
title: ubuntu_magazine_11_compressed-1.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

1
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

2
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
In the spirit of Ubuntu

2
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
No portion of this magazine may be produced in any form without
the written permission of the publishers. DIRCO is not responsible
for unsolicited material and reserves the right to amend and to
alter copy and visual material as deemed necessary. Copyright
is reserved. Views in Ubuntu are not necessarily those of DIRCO
or those of the South African Government. They can accept no
liability of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with
the contents of this publication.
credits
UBUNTU magazine – issue 11
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
The Department of International Relations
and Cooperation’s quarterly magazine
a Nguni word meaning humanity
UBUNTU
ON THE COVER
This year is the 40th Anniversary of the
Soweto Uprising. We pay tribute to the
16 June 1976 generation whose brave actions
led to the declaration of apartheid as a crime
against humanity by the United Nations,
and triggered a groundswell of international
solidarity against the apartheid regime. Hector
Pieterson, age 13, was one the first students
to be killed. He has since become a symbol
of youth resistance to apartheid. The cover
depicts the Garden of Remembrance at the
Hector Pieterson Museum with the names of
all those who died in the uprising inscribed on
loose bricks.
Publisher
Clayson Monyela
Editor-in-Chief
Michelle Greeff – greeffm@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1743
Editor
Delien Burger
Creative Director
Pumeza Albert
Advertising
Zengeziwe Msimang – msimangz@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 0919
Distribution
Thembakazi Zulu – ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Tel: +27 12 351 1169
Photographers
Jacoline Schoonees, Yolande Snyman, Government Communication and Information System,
Media Club South Africa, SA Tourism, Zamani Research Group, University of Cape Town,
Liliesleaf, South African Mint Company, South African Navy, Delaire Graff Estate, UN Photo/Evan
Schneider, Mike Kendrick, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and Wheelchair Tennis
South Africa
Acknowledgements
Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa; Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Minister of International Relations
and Cooperation; Jeff Radebe, Minister in The Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation; Siyabonga Cwele, Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services and
Chairperson of the International Cooperation, Trade and Security Cluster; Derek Hanekom,
Minister of Tourism; Johan Davies, Ambassador to Amman, Jordan; Kingsley Makhubela, CEO:
Brand South Africa; Nicholas Wolpe, CEO: Liliesleaf; Chichi Maponya, CEO Maponya Group
and Deputy Chairperson of the South African Council of Foreign Relations; Albi Modise, Chief
Director: Communication/Head of Communication, Department of Environmental Affairs; Manusha
Pillai, General Manager: Communications, Brand South Africa; Siphamandla Zondi, University of
South Africa’s Institute for Global Dialogue and Centre for Latin American and Caribbean Studies;
Thivhilaeli Makatu, Counsellor Multilateral, South African Embassy, Paris; Mvuyo Mhangwane,
Counsellor – Political, South African Embassy, Santiago de Chile; Hugo Lambrechts, Department
of International Relations and Cooperation; Itumeleng Moutloali, International Committee of the
Red Cross, Pretoria; Jen Snowball, Professor of Economics at Rhodes University; and Marco
Scholtz, Senior Lecturer in Tourism at Tourism Research in Economic Environs and Society,
North-West University
Advertisers
South African Airways, Brand South Africa, Spoor & Fischer, Huawei, Gauteng Growth and
Development Agency, Transnet, Gree Aircon, ZTE, Wines of South Africa, Koyo Elevator, Industrial
Development Corporation, Standard Bank and AAD2016
To subscribe
Send an e-mail with the words SUBSCRIBE UBUNTU in the subject line, your organisation,
e-mail address and delivery address in the body to ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
Back-issue enquiries
ZuluT2@dirco.gov.za
The Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) ©2012
Tel: +27 12 351 1000, www.dirco.gov.za
Private Bag X152, PRETORIA, 0001, Republic of South Africa
460 Soutpansberg Road, Rietondale, Pretoria, 0084
Republic of South Africa

3
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
INTRODUCING JOHANNESBURG
TO ABUJA
BOOK NOW!
HAVASWW13250/E
BRINGING THE WORLD TO AFRICA. TAKING AFRICA TO THE WORLD.
SAA proudly announces an exciting new business option – ﬂ  ights from Johannesburg to Abuja,
Nigeria. The new route creates a new world of business opportunities, waiting to stimulate
economic growth between South Africa and Nigeria.
For more information, visit ﬂ  ysaa.com, call +27 11 978 1111 or contact your nearest travel agent.

4
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Liberation Heritage:
Beyers Naudé56
6  Letter from the Minister
10 Publisher’s note
12  Towards a better South Africa, continent and world
18  South Africa’s diplomacy of Ubuntu is inspiring
 excellence globally
24 The African story is changing
26 Africa’s education and gender equality goals “well
 achieved”
30 China and Africa united by a common destiny
34 Beyond solidarity: The predicament of South Africa
 and Cuba relations
18
South Africa’s diplomacy of Ubuntu is inspiring
excellence globally
contents
Diplomacy
South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action
In every issue
38  SA-Iran’s relations elevated to a strategic partnership
40  The power of humanity
44  South Africa elected to UNESCO Executive Board
46  Team South Africa stands tall in Davos
48  Science at the forefront of SA’s vision
52  South African expertise and skills help to save Petra
Feature
UBUNTU magazine – issue 11
56  Liberation Heritage: Beyers Naudé
60  Rhino anti-poaching interventions showing results
64  A beacon on the global landscape of human memory

5
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SA wine
estates sparkle114
Lifestyle
130
132
South African classic
jazz revitalized
Swan Lake: South African
adaptation enthralling
the world
68  Africa: The new frontier for investment
70  Opening up the African skies
74  Shaping conversation in Africa
78  SA innovations changing the world
84  Why arts and culture contribute more to an economy than
 growth and jobs
86  International film productions boost South African economy,
 skills
88  South Africa is open for business
92  200 years of South African coinage celebrated
96  South Africa celebrates her armed forces
100  Flying the flag
106 #a good story to tell
LIFESTYLE
114  SA wine estates sparkle
118  SA fishing town among World Responsible Tourism Awards
 winners
122  Why millions choose Africa as their safari destination
124  Wonderboom Airport proudly services communities
128  Creating beauty out of waste
130  Swan Lake: South African adaptation enthralling the world
132 South African classic jazz revitalised
134  The Soil rocks Santiago during WOMAD festival

6
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
his year is the 40th Anniversary
of the Soweto Uprising and
South Africa pays tribute to
the 16 June 1976 generation
whose brave actions led to
the declaration of apartheid
as a crime against humanity by the United
Nations (UN), and triggered a groundswell of
international solidarity against the apartheid
regime. South Africa will remain eternally
grateful to the international community for
their role in the struggle against apartheid,
and the birth of a new democratic South
Africa.
This is also the “Year of Human Rights with
specific focus on Women’s Rights” as declared
by the Heads of State and Government during
the African Union (AU) January 2016 Summit.
Women’s rights are human rights.
It coincides with the 60th Anniversary of the
historic march by the women of South Africa
against inhuman, unjust and discriminatory
apartheid laws. We reaffirm the centrality
of human rights in our foreign policy and
recommit ourselves to intensify our efforts
at the promotion and protection of women’s
rights in particular.
During the State of the Nation Address
on 11 February, President Jacob Zuma
underscored the centrality of the National
Development Plan (NDP), the overarching
apex policy framework that guides the work of
the fifth administration.
In the area of international relations, the
NDP states: “… in order for South Africa to
achieve its national goals of eradicating
Letter from the Minister
poverty, lowering inequality, creating jobs
and making transition to a resilient carbon
economy, foreign relations must be driven
by the country’s domestic economic, political
and social demands, as well as our regional,
continental and global obligations”.
In pursuance of this injunction, the
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO) has translated the NDP
goals into a strategic programme that seeks
to:
• sustain political, economic and social
relations
• strengthen political and economic
integration and development of
the Southern African Development
Community (SADC)
• consolidate the African Agenda
• strengthen and consolidate South-
South relations
• leverage relations with the North
in advancement of national and
continental priorities and agenda of
the South
• advocate for the reform and
strengthening of the global system of
governance.
We live in a turbulent world characterised by
economic crisis on the one hand and political
conflict on the other. These twin global
challenges pose a serious threat to peace
and development in the world. Peace and
development are two sides of the same coin.
According to the UN’s 2016 World Economic
Situation Prospects, the global economy is
expected to grow sluggishly by a mere 2,9% in
2016 and 3,2% in 2017. The global economic
downturn has forced many governments to
adopt fiscal consolidation measures side by
side with stimulus packages. South Africa
is one of the developing countries whose
economics are fully integrated in the global
economy, hence the impact.
Part of DIRCO’s response to this changing
global economic landscape has been to
identify economic development opportunities
for South Africa. In anticipation of growth in
both the African and Asian regions, we took a
conscious decision to expand and strengthen
our diplomatic missions in the two regions.
South Africa increased its presence on the
continent from seven diplomatic and consular
missions in 1994 to 47 in 2015. Consequently,
South Africa’s trade on the continent
increased 39 times from R11,4 billion in 1994
to R385 billion in 2015. We are targeting half
a trillion rand trade with Africa by 2019. As at
the end of 2015, 20% of South Africa’s trade
was conducted within the African continent.
With regard to Asia and the Middle East,
South Africa’s trade and investment in
these regions have grown considerably
and continue to do so. In 1994, trade with
Asia and the Middle East combined was
approximately R45 billion and has increased
to approximately R760 billion for Asia and
R116 billion with the Middle East. Working
together with other government departments,
we can achieve a trillion rand trade with this
region by 2019.
Based on the above, it can be deduced
that there is a direct correlation between the
growth of South Africa’s diplomatic missions
and the phenomenal expansion of our trade
and investment relations on both the African
continent and in Asia and the Middle East.
The same applies to the Americas and
Europe. With additional economic diplomacy
efforts and enhanced national coordination,
South African trade with the world can reach
R2 trillion by the end of this administration.
At the same time, as we explore new
markets, we continue to maintain close
economic ties with the industrialised
economies of the North, which provide,
among others, preferential market access to
some of South Africa’s exports. Enhancing
the economic and political dialogue is an
important part of our economic diplomacy
strategy as they remain a primary source
of foreign direct investment and official
development assistance flows into South
Africa.
In addition to the economic uncertainties we
face, the global security situation has become

7
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
more precarious in the recent past. We have
witnessed with concern growing extremism,
increased acts of terrorism and intra-state
conflict in various regions across the world,
including the Sahel. The long-standing conflict
in Syria and the instability in Libya are but
examples of the conflict. These developments
have led to an increase in migration flows as
people flee the consequences of conflict. It is
important that the root causes of migration are
addressed, especially the impact on women
and children. South Africa’s development is
intertwined with that of the southern African
region and the African continent at large.
Hence, the country’s renewed efforts at
ramping up industrialisation should be viewed
within the overall framework of the SADC
Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap
as approved by the SADC Extra-Ordinary
Summit in April 2015. We seek to industrialise
the regional and continental economies in
order to develop our own manufacturing
capacity.
South Africa also seeks to radically alter
the colonial/post-colonial pattern where Africa
was a supplier of raw materials. Africa should
produce value-added goods for exports into
the global economy. It is only in this way
that we can address the paradox of a rich-
resource continent inhabited by a poverty-
stricken population and make a decisive
break with the past.
In pursuit of the continental economic
integration agenda, we have witnessed the
launch of the SADC, Common Market for
Eastern and Southern Africa and East African
Community Tripartite Free Trade Area (FTA) in
June 2015 in Egypt. This FTA, which merges
26 countries into a free trade zone with
625 million people and a total gross domestic
product of US$1,6 trillion will contribute
immensely towards increasing intra-African
trade. The Tripartite FTA represents an
important milestone towards the conclusion
of negotiations for the establishment of the
Continental FTA.
Led by President Zuma, the AU Assembly
unanimously re-elected South Africa for a
second consecutive two-year term to the AU’s
Peace and Security Council. This gives us
the opportunity to consolidate the work done
in the past two years, including contributing
to the implementation of Agenda 2063’s goal
of “Silencing the Guns by 2020”. South Africa
will intensify its diplomatic efforts to help bring
about lasting political solutions in Lesotho,
Burundi, South Sudan and the Great Lakes
region.
We commend the outgoing AU Commission
Chairperson, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma,
for her admirable leadership, in particular the
conceptualisation of Agenda 2063, which has
since been adopted as the continent’s vision
– the “Africa we want”.
In pursuit of the NDP goals, particularly
concerning energy security, South Africa has
engaged in mutually beneficial partnerships
with the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC). The Memorandum of Understanding
between South Africa and the DRC on
the Grand Inga Project, signed in 2011,
has entered into force. This project, when
completed, will be a significant addition
to South Africa’s energy mix, contributing
15 000 MW to the national grid. The African
continent continues to leverage relations
with strategic partners such as China to
achieve its developmental objectives as set
out in Agenda 2063. In this regard, the first-
ever summit-level meeting of the Forum on
China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), held  in
December 2015 on the African continent in
Johannesburg, focussed on the objectives of
Agenda 2063 and the China Two Centenary
Goals.
China pledged US$60 billion for Africa’s
skills training, socio-economic and
infrastructure development from which South
Africa and the continent at large will benefit.
Ahead of the FOCAC meeting, Chinese
President Xi Jinping undertook a State Visit
to South Africa, culminating in the signing
of 23 agreements amounting to close to
R100 billion.
Our cooperative partnerships with
emerging economies complement other
existing platforms which we utilise to pursue
the African Agenda. Since we joined the
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
(BRICS) formation, Africa’s developmental
needs and aspirations have been fully
incorporated into the BRICS agenda. The
BRICS’s New Development Bank (NDB),
headquartered in Shanghai, has recently
started operations and its African Regional
Centre will be located in Johannesburg.
The NDB approved its first tranche of
projects in April 2016. Each member state
has been allocated a project to implement
and South Africa has been allocated
US$180 billion for renewable energy. Through
this decision, the NDB has commenced
to discharge its mandate, namely: the
funding of infrastructure projects that
promote sustainable development. Africa’s
partnerships with the United States of
America, India, Korea and Japan are also
yielding positive socio-economic results.
In the spirit of mutual beneficial global
cooperation, South Africa will continue to
participate actively in the Group of 20 (G20)
processes in its capacity as Co-chair of the
G20 Development Working Group.
As the chairperson of Group of 77 and
China, South Africa was at the forefront of
articulating and promoting the collective
economic and developmental interests
of the South within the UN system. We
coordinated the G77 and China positions
in the negotiations for the “2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development”, which was
adopted at a UN Summit in September 2015,
and during the third International Conference
on Financing for Development, which resulted
in the “Addis Ababa Action Agenda”.
We are satisfied that the 2030 Agenda
is all encompassing in that it addresses
the three dimensions of sustainable
development, namely: the economic, social
and environmental dimensions, and is aligned
to the AU’s Agenda 2063 and our own NDP.
Concerning the climate change negotiations,
South Africa utilised its tenure as the Chair of
the G77 and China to engender a paradigm
shift from the mitigation-centric approach to a
holistic and comprehensive approach in order
to meaningfully address climate change.
In this regard, the historic Paris Agreement
and the package of supporting decisions
covering climate action in the pre- and post-
2020 periods mark the successful conclusion
of a four-year negotiation process under the
Durban Platform for Enhanced Action initiated
by South Africa in 2011. South Africa signed
the Paris Agreement at the UN Secretary-
General’s high-level event in New York on
22 April 2016 and will commence with the
domestic processes required for ratification.
We remain convinced that the UN
is the pre-eminent organisation for the
maintenance of global peace and security
and the advancement of development. We
will therefore continue to advocate for its
reforms, particularly the reform of the UN
Security Council to ensure that this body is
both responsive to the needs of developing
countries and is truly representative of the
current global realities.
The following words of President Nelson
Mandela addressing a Joint Sitting of
Parliament to mark 10 years of democracy
still ring true: “In a cynical world we have
become an inspiration to many. We signal that
good can be achieved among human beings
who are prepared to trust, prepared to believe
in the goodness of people”.

8
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Africa Day, which is celebrated each year on 25 May, commemorates
the 1963 founding of the Organisation of African Unity, presently
recognised as the Africa Union (AU). South Africa’s Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma became
the first female chairperson of the AU Commission in 2012. She will step down at
the end of her four-year term in July 2016. Agenda 2063, a blueprint to achieve a
prosperous, integrated and peaceful Africa, is one of her legacy projects.

9
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

10
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Let’s talk foreign policy ...
Publisher’s note
T
he good work done by the
Department of International
Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO) is not going unnoticed.
In March, DIRCO came in
Third Place in Universum’s
Most Attractive Employers Awards 2016
for the category: Humanities/Liberal Arts/
Education. Universum is the global leader in
employer branding and delivers a full range
of services in research, strategic consulting
and communication solutions that enable
employers to better understand, attract and
retain top talent.
Every year, Universum Global conducts
research across the world and specifically
within South Africa in 2015, Universum
interviewed over 45 000 tertiary institution
students as well as over 21 000 professionals in
various sectors, including business/commerce,
engineering/technology, healthcare/health
sciences/sciences and humanities/liberal
arts/law. The research survey indicated that
DIRCO was perceived by professionals as a
desired place to work due to aspects such as
international exposure, training opportunities
and travelling.
In April, South Africa received the
Distinguished Diplomatic Service Award by the
World Affairs Council in Washington, DC.
As the first African country to receive this
award, it recognises South Africa’s outstanding
commitment to global education, international
affairs and global communication to advance
our national interests.
Cabinet has also recognised the work of
the department by applauding the winners
of the Second Annual Ubuntu Awards, held
in February, which recognised South African
industry leaders and eminent persons for their
contribution to promote our national interests
and values across the globe.
In the same statement, Cabinet commended
the Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, for
her contribution to South Africa’s international
engagements, driven by the vision of a united
African continent that is peaceful, democratic,
non-racial, non-sexist and prosperous, and
which contributes to a just and equitable world.
There is tangible evidence supporting these
accolades.
In DIRCO’s Budget Vote in Parliament
on 3 May, Minister Nkoana-Mashabane
highlighted how DIRCO’s conscious decision
to expand and strengthen diplomatic missions
in strategic regions have paid off.
“South Africa increased its presence on the
African continent from seven diplomatic and
consular missions in 1994 to 47 in 2015.
Consequently, South Africa’s trade on
the continent increased 39 times from
R11,4 billion in 1994 to R385 billion in 2015.
We are targeting half a trillion rand trade with
Africa by 2019. As at the end of 2015, 20% of
South Africa’s trade was conducted within the
African continent.
“With regard to Asia and the Middle East,
South Africa’s trade and investment in these
regions have grown considerably and continue
to do so.
In 1994, trade with Asia and the Middle
East combined was approximately
R45 billion and has increased to approximately
R760 billion for Asia and R116 billion with the
Middle East.
Working together with other government
departments, we can achieve a trillion rand
trade with this region by 2019.”
The Minister said that “with additional
economic diplomacy efforts and enhanced
national coordination, South African trade with
the world can reach R2 trillion by the end of this
administration”.
DIRCO has a sharpened focus on economic
diplomacy with a view to addressing the
triple challenges of poverty, unemployment
and inequality as outlined in the National
Development Plan. Therefore, our international
relations engagements for this year will
continue to be based on our country’s national
priorities and the pursuit of continental
aspirations.
DIRCO is successfully delivering on its
mandate, which is the creation of a better
South Africa and contributing to a better and
safer Africa in a better world.
The successful implementation of South
Africa’s foreign policy would not be possible
without the dedication and hard work of
DIRCO’s officials both at head office and
abroad.

In March, DIRCO came in Third Place in
Universum’s Most Attractive Employers Awards
2016 for the category: Humanities/Liberal Arts/
Education.
In April, South Africa received the Distinguished Diplomatic Service
Award by the World Affairs Council in Washington, DC

11
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Twenty-one years into democracy, our country has emerged as one of Africa’s iconic destinations to live
and work in. South Africa boasts an array of prospects for varied expertise and the Homecoming
Revolution platform is an opportunity to share knowledge and keep South Africa globally competitive.
Brand South Africa is calling all “ Global South Africans” to return home and actively contribute towards
the country’s Vision 2030.
HOME IS WHERE THE HEART IS.
Play your part and register to join the Global South African network: W: globalsouthafricans.com
 glosaf      @glosaf    Global-South-Africans
McCannJHB 913897

12
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
he South African Government’s
International Cooperation,
Trade and Security Cluster
is responsible for the
implementation of the Medium
Term Strategic Framework:
2014 – 2019 commitments, as articulated in
Outcome 11. Our vision is to “Create a better
Towards a better South
Africa, continent and world
During 2015, government sharpened its focus on
economic diplomacy to strengthen relations that
will bring foreign investment and help it to address
the triple challenge of poverty, unemployment and
inequality
.
By Siyabonga Cwele
Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services and
Chairperson of the International Cooperation, Trade and Security Cluster
DIPLOMACY TOWARDS A BETTER SOUTH AFRICA, CONTINENT AND WORLD

13
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
South Africa, contribute to a better and safer
Africa in a better world”. Government fulfils
its commitments through the cluster system
that promotes coordination and integration
of interrelated functions to accelerate service
delivery.
During 2015, government sharpened its
focus on economic diplomacy to strengthen
relations that will bring foreign investment
and help it to address the triple challenge of
poverty, unemployment and inequality. This
focus has led to a number of partnerships
with like-minded countries and significant
funds have been committed towards African
development by South Africa’s international
partners.
South Africa’s priorities enhanced in
bilateral and multilateral engagements
South Africa ended the year 2015 by hosting
the State Visit by the President of the
People’s Republic of China, Xi Jinping, which
took place on the eve of the Forum on China-
Africa Cooperation Summit during which a
number of agreements were concluded.
President Jacob Zuma took part in
the 2016 World Economic Forum (WEF)
in Davos with a delegation comprising
ministers and business leaders. The WEF
was an important platform to promote and
profile South Africa’s attractiveness as an
investment destination of choice. Building
on WEF Africa, this delegation took a united
message to WEF Davos that South Africa
was open for business. Despite challenges
in the global economy, South Africa remains
a competitive business and investment
destination. In the first three quarters of the
current financial year, South Africa attracted
R64,3 billion in foreign direct investment,
far surpassing the target of R45 billion.
For citizens, the investments mean an
opportunity to work, develop their skills, earn
a sustainable income and feed a family.
Participation in multilateral institutions
The Minister of Environmental Affairs, Edna
Molewa, led the South African delegation to
the 21st Session of the Conference of the
Parties to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change and
11th Meeting of the Parties serving as the
Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto
Protocol (UNFCCC COP 21/CMP11). This
global conference, which took place from
30 November to 12 December 2015 in Paris,
France, led to the adoption by consensus
of the Paris Agreement and a package of
supporting decisions, addressing climate
action in both the pre-and -post 2020 periods.
President Zuma delivered the South
African national statement, held bilateral
meetings and was accorded the special
honour by the French President of chairing
a full session of the leaders’ event. This was
in recognition of President Zuma’s special
role as initiator of the Durban Platform for
Enhanced Action, under which the Paris
negotiations took place, as well as a key
contributor to broader United Nations (UN)
processes on environment and sustainable
development.
South Africa participated in these
negotiations as Chair of the Group of 77 and
China, whose 136 members represent well
over 80% of the world’s population, as well
as in its role as a member of the Africa Group
of Negotiators; the Brazil, South Africa, India
and China group (BASIC); and in its national
capacity. Minister Molewa led the G77 and
China at the ministerial-level meetings in
Paris, while Ambassador Nozipho Mxakato-
Diseko, Deputy Director-General: Global
Governance and Continental Agenda at the
Department of International Relations and
Cooperation (DIRCO), chaired the group for
all other meetings during 2015. South Africa
drafted key text that helped forge the political
deal underpinning the legal agreement and
also made successful interventions. Under
South Africa’s Chair, the G77 and China
demonstrated unprecedented unity, which
resulted in securing the best deal possible
for developing countries.
The successful finalisation of the Paris
Agreement is extremely significant for South
Africa as it strives to enhance its efforts to
transition to a lower-carbon economy and
society, as well as to adapt in the short,
medium and long term to the impacts of
increasing temperatures and reduced rainfall
in many parts of the country.
South Africa also assumed a seat on the
UN Broadband Commission, which noted
that 3,2 billion people were connected to the
Internet. The commission is now focused on
finding ways to connect the next four billion
people, mostly in underdeveloped areas,
and trying to bring down the costs to connect
them.
South Africa is implementing the roll-out of
broadband to ensure that all citizens are able
to use the transformative power of the Internet
to keep pace with global developments and
market their businesses internationally. We
want to ensure that ultimately, access to
broadband is at competitive prices as we
move to lower the costs of doing business in
South Africa.
In his State of the Nation Address in
February 2016, President Zuma emphasised
that the African continent remained central to
South Africa’s foreign policy engagements.
South Africa hosted the Summit of African
Union (AU) Heads of State and Government
in June 2015. At that time, the negotiations for
a Continental Free Trade Agreement (CFTA)
were launched. The CFTA will also follow
the developmental integration approach for
which South Africa has consistently been
DIPLOMACYTOWARDS A BETTER SOUTH AFRICA, CONTINENT AND WORLD
Under South Africa’s Chair, the G77 and China
demonstrated unprecedented unity, which resulted
in securing the best deal possible for developing
countries.

14
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
advocating. The developmental integration
agenda is premised on three pillars: market
integration complemented by the concurrent
pillars of industrial and infrastructure
development.
President Zuma and senior officials
attended the 24th Ordinary Session of the
AU Summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from
30 to 31 January 2016. The AU launched the
theme: “Year of Women’s Empowerment and
Development towards Africa’s Agenda 2063”.
South Africa’s plans are underway to
domesticate and align Agenda 2063 and
the first 10-Year Implementation Plan. This
is in response to the summit’s call for all AU
organs and continental institutions to align
their strategic and master plans to the first
10-Year Implementation Plan and ensure
maximum coordination in its implementation,
in the spirit of complementarity and
subsidiarity.
South Africa also participated in the
important World Radiocommunications
Conference, which took place in November
2015. This conference agreed on new
allocations and reassignment of spectrum
for critical services. South Africa was
successful in advancing its national position.
The outcomes have positive benefits for
the national priorities, including universal
broadband roll-out, universal broadcasting
roll-out, satellite communications services,
aircraft services, maritime and the ocean
economy programmes, environmental public
protection and disaster relief, emergency
services and security services, as well as
other future programmes to support economic
transformation and to realise the National
Development Plan objectives.
Strong, mutually beneficial South-South
cooperation
South Africa participated in the India-Africa
Summit held in New Delhi, India, from
26 to 30 October 2015 and the FOCAC hosted
in Johannesburg from 4 to 5 December
2015 as we strengthened these important
partnerships. China announced investments
of US$50 billion of which South Africa will
receive US$10 billion for infrastructure,
industrialisation and skills development.
The Preferential Trade Agreement between
the Southern African Customs Union
(SACU) and the Southern Common Market
(Mercosur), comprising Brazil, Argentina,
Paraguay and Uruguay, has now been ratified
by all member states and this agreement
is expected to enter into force in 2016. The
agreement will offer new market access
opportunities for South African exports and
also strengthen South-South cooperation.
Economic cooperation with our Brazil,
Russia, India and China (BRICS) partners
was strengthened when the first two
intergovernmental agreements were
concluded on the occasion of the Sixth
BRICS Summit. These were the Agreement
on the New Development Bank (NDB)
and the Treaty Establishing a Contingent
Reserve Arrangement. The NDB approved its
inaugural projects in April 2016.
South Africa participated in the inaugural
BRICS Ministers of Communications whose
aims include demonopolising the electronic
manufacturing sector, opening their markets
to each other and increasing cooperation
among each other.
Strong, mutually beneficial and strategic
formations with the North
Countries of the developed North remain
important strategic partners for South Africa.
South Africa continues its engagements
with the European Union (EU) as a bloc
(consisting of 28 members), which is our
largest trading partner and foreign investor.
Over 2 000 EU companies operating within
South Africa have created over 350 000
jobs. The EU also contributes 100 million
Euros (about R1,5 billion) to infrastructure
development for domestic and regional
programmes through the Infrastructure
Investment Programme.
In 2015, South African exports to the
EU amounted to more than R216 billion, of
which half were manufactured goods. The
legal scrubbing of the Economic Partnership
Agreement (EPA) between the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) EPA
group and the EU was concluded in October
2015. The agreement will be put forward for
ratification within the next few months. This
agreement brings improved market access
for some South African products into the EU,
beyond that which was enjoyed under the
earlier South Africa-EU Trade, Development
and Cooperation Agreement.
Furthermore, the African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) was re-authorised in
June 2015 for 10 years until 2025, with South
Africa’s inclusion.
This will secure continued market access
for South African products, including in value-
added generating sectors such as agriculture
and automobiles. South Africa and the United
States of America (USA) have resolved all
outstanding issues relating to the agricultural
imports from the USA, paving the way for
continuation of AGOA benefits for South
Africa’s agricultural exports into the US
market.
South Africa and the USA have
recommitted themselves to work towards
resolving issues affecting South Africa’s
agricultural exports into that country. The
affected agricultural exports include, among
others, citrus, avocadoes, litchis, beef, mutton
and racehorses.
The renewal of AGOA beyond September
2015 and a pledge to support African-led
peace initiatives on the continent are among
the significant outcomes of the US-Africa
Leadership Summit held in the USA last year.
A sustainable, developed and economically
integrated Africa
Economically, regional economic integration
efforts have gained considerable momentum
through the launch of the Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa-East African
Community-SADC Tripartite Free Trade Area
(FTA) in June 2015 in Sharm El Sheik, Egypt.
The Tripartite FTA comprises combined
markets of 26 countries.
The combined gross domestic product
(GDP) of these countries in 2014 was
estimated at US$1,3 trillion and amount to
58% of Africa’s GDP.
Efforts are underway to also engage in the
Continental FTA negotiations launched by the
assembly in June 2015, which will integrate all
the AU member states with a market of over
one billion people with a projected GDP of
approximately US$3,4 trillion by 2017.
DIPLOMACY TOWARDS A BETTER SOUTH AFRICA, CONTINENT AND WORLD
Economic cooperation with our Brazil, Russia, India
and China (BRICS) partners was strengthened
when the first two intergovernmental agreements
were concluded on the occasion of the Sixth
BRICS Summit. These were the Agreement
on the New Development Bank and the Treaty
Establishing a Contingent Reserve Arrangement
.
Over 2 000 European Union companies operating
within South Africa have created over 350 000
jobs
.

15
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
The year will also seek to explore more
business and developmental opportunities,
and demonstrate South Africa’s innovations
and best practices in various areas such
as science and technology (S&T), fashion,
mining, arts, culture, tourism and greater
people-to-people interaction.
Member states were also encouraged
to urgently develop a continental initiative
on critical technical skills and prioritise
investments in the development of skills,
especially in the areas of S&T, essential
for implementing Agenda 2063, including
vocational skills and trade technicians, and
the design and management of large-scale
projects.
An economically integrated southern
Africa
South Africa assumed the position of Chair
of the SACU in June 2015. In SADC, the
review of the Regional Indicative Strategic
Development Plan was completed and
adopted by an Extraordinary SADC Summit
in April 2015.
In the area of economic integration,
industrial development was given centre
stage and is being front-loaded in the
implementation plan.
It is important that all partners develop their
industrial sectors in order to benefit fully from
integration initiatives.
In further elaboration of this new
orientation, the SADC has also developed a
regional industrialisation strategy. As a final
component of that work, the action plan of the
strategy is being developed.
A peaceful, secure and stable Africa
President Zuma stated in the State of the
Nation Address that: “South Africa continued
to support peace and security and regional
economic integration through participation in
the AU and the SADC initiatives”.
The South African National Defence
Force (SANDF) and South African Police
Service continue to participate diligently in
conflict prevention and peacekeeping on the
continent.
The Force Intervention Brigade, which
the SANDF is part of, had a very successful
operation, which saw the biggest armed
group in the eastern Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC) M23 surrendering.
In December 2015, South Africa’s
Lieutenant-General Derrick Mgwebi was
appointed as the new Force Commander
of the UN Mission in the DRC, called
MONUSCO.
He took over command of a 20 000-strong
UN Mission in the eastern part of the DRC.
This is the largest UN peace-support
operation on the African continent and in the
world.
The SANDF, under operation Team Bulisa,
has assisted with the development and
completion of the Military Strategy of the
Armed Forces of the DRC. This is part of
capacity-building that the SANDF is involved
in, with other defence forces of the region
through defence cooperation.
Maritime security continues to be the other
key operation for the SANDF on the east coast
of the continent. The SANDF successfully
deployed two ships, SAS Spioenkop  and
SAS Galeshewe on Operation Copper in the
Mozambique Channel at alternating times.
The SANDF has been in the Mozambique
Channel since 2011. They carried out
operations to counter piracy activities and
there has been a drastic reduction of piracy in
the Mozambique Channel.
South Africa’s efforts have resulted, among
others, in a number of key outcomes such as
the operationalisation of the African Capacity
for Immediate Response to Crises (ACIRC),
of which South Africa is a contributing and
founding member.
South Africa has continued to support
peace and security, and regional economic
integration by participating in AU and SADC
initiatives. Following the operationalisation
of the ACIRC, we hosted the AMANI
AFRICA II Field Training Exercise (19
October – 7 November 2015) to test its full
operational capability as a build-up to the
operationalisation of the African Standby
Force. The success of this exercise was
a significant milestone in our quest to fully
operationalise the African Peace and Security
Architecture.
The South African Government will
continue to contribute to peacekeeping on
the continent through various peacekeeping
missions. Its involvement in peacekeeping
missions is premised on our appreciation that
Africa’s economic development depends on
the substance of peace and stability.
Working in partnership with regional and
international partners and as a member of
the AU Peace and Security Council, South
Africa continues to play a critical role in the
restoration of peace and stability in the DRC,
Burundi, Central African Republic, Libya,
South Sudan and other conflict-torn countries.
Political cohesion within southern Africa
to ensure a peaceful, secure and stable
region
At regional level, South Africa chaired the
SADC Organ on Peace, Security and Defence
Cooperation from August 2014 to August 2015
and led SADC electoral observer missions to
Mozambique, Botswana, Namibia, Mauritius,
Zambia and the Kingdom of Lesotho. All these
elections were declared peaceful, credible,
transparent, free and fair.
The elections in Lesotho were a
culmination of the successful facilitation by
Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa under
the auspices of the SADC. South Africa also
continued with the regional peace and security
initiatives in the Republic of Madagascar and
the DRC. South Africa will continue to support
conflict-resolution initiatives in Lesotho, Sri
Lanka and South Sudan, led by the Deputy
President as Special Envoy of the President.
Tourism's contribution to the South
African economy
Tourism remains a key driver of South Africa’s
national economy. The sector contributes
about 9% to our GDP. The country received
a total of 8 903 773 foreign tourist arrivals
during 2015, generating a significant revenue
contribution to the economy.
In 2015, the tourism sector raised concerns
about the impact of new immigration
regulations that were introduced to combat
child trafficking and improve security at South
Africa’s points of entry. Government listened
to these concerns and committed itself to
finding a better balance between the country’s
security and economic development interests.
An Inter-Ministerial Committee on
Immigration Regulations, chaired by Deputy
President Ramaphosa, brought several
government departments together to find
this balance. Cabinet has approved several
measures to make it easier for tourists coming
to South Africa to apply for visas and travel
with children. At the same time, it has ensured
that the safety of all children and the security of
our country is not compromised. Government
is confident that tourism will continue to
contribute significantly to our economy as the
revised measures are implemented.
Several skills-development and capacity-
building programmes are underway to unlock
DIPLOMACYTOWARDS A BETTER SOUTH AFRICA, CONTINENT AND WORLD
South Africa’s efforts have resulted, among
others, in a number of key outcomes such as the
operationalisation of the African Capacity for Immediate
Response to Crises, of which South Africa is a
contributing and founding member.

16
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
the full potential of tourism. These include
training 577 young people as chefs this year,
instructing 300 youths in the art of serving
wine expertly as professional sommeliers,
and teaching unemployed graduates to
become food safety assurers, who ensure
that the food served at establishments is
stored, prepared and served safely.
Over 1,6 million local and international
tourists visited the Kruger National Park
in 2015. They enjoyed the magnificent
biodiversity of one of the world’s leading
successes in wildlife conservation. An
DIPLOMACY TOWARDS A BETTER SOUTH AFRICA, CONTINENT AND WORLD
Focus on your inventions...
additional access point into the Kruger
National Park will be developed near Muyexe
in Limpopo. The new Shangoni Gate will
improve access to the park and provide
economic opportunities for local communities
by producing arts and crafts, providing
supplies, and operating tours and other
hospitality services.
The Department of Tourism is implementing
revised Tourism Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment Codes of Good Practice. The
black ownership target has been set at 30%,
which is higher than the target in the generic
Cabinet has approved several measures to make
it easier for tourists coming to South Africa to apply
for visas and travel with children
. At the same time,
it has ensured that the safety of all children and the
security of our country is not compromised
.
codes of good practice to assist in efforts
to drive transformation in the sector. To
address women empowerment, this 30%
must consist of 50% women and 50% men.
South Africans and international tourists
should visit the country’s important cultural
and heritage sites and beautiful landscapes
and diverse attractions. Access to these
sites is being improved as part of a broader
strategy to create a culture of travel among
our people.
The tourism industry is a major
contributor to the South African economy
and employment of our citizens. This
shows that ongoing efforts to showcase
the country as a tourist, investment and
destination of choice are bearing much-
needed fruits during this low global
economic outlook.
The Nation Brands Index recognises
South Africa as among the top 50 most
globally competitive countries in the world.
The index looks at six pillars of the brand of
a nation with a number of criteria.
The pillars include: tourism, people,
exports, immigration and investment,
governance, and culture and heritage. The
Nation Brands Index is the result of 20 342
interviews in 20 countries.
According to the index, South Africa’s
strengths are seen as sports (particularly
football), pristine landscapes and game
reserves.
Participants in the survey also indicated
that the citizens of South Africa were
described as, among others, desirable
friends, good employees, hardworking
and skillful. This demonstrates that South
Africa has so much good to offer.
Conclusion
The year 2015 was a special year for
international relations as it marked 70
years of existence of the UN. South Africa
used the occasion to continue to advocate
for the reform of the Global System of
Governance, particularly the UN Security
Council and the Bretton Woods institutions.
South Africa’s international relations
engagements will continue to be based on
South Africa’s national priorities and the
pursuit of continental aspirations.
Domestically, 2015 marked the 60th
anniversary of the Freedom Charter,
which called for peace and friendship
among nations. This year, we celebrate
the 20th anniversary of the signing of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa
of 1996.
Building on this strong foundation, we
are resolute in our determination to create
a better South Africa; contribute to a better
and safer Africa in a better world.”
This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the
signing of the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa of 1996
. Building on this strong foundation,
we are resolute in our determination to create a
better South Africa; contribute to a better and safer
Africa in a better world
.
i
The World Travel and Tourism Council estimates tourism will earn R120 billion in export
earnings, and contribute more than R380 billion to the economy this year.
Delivering his department’s Budget Vote in Parliament recently, the Minister of Tourism,
Derek Hanekom, said that in January 2016, over one million tourists arrived in South
Africa, 15% more than in January last year. February brought an increase of 18%.
To bridge the skills gap and unemployment in the tourism sector, the Department of
Tourism has developed a series of learnership programmes.
The National Youth Chefs Training Programme qualification is recognised internationally.
It ensures world-class service standards and promotes South African indigenous cuisine.
In the 2015/16 financial year, the department enrolled 577 learners. The programme is
continuing in 2016/17 and the budget for the programme over the two financial years
is R63 million. Since its inception in 2011, this programme has produced over 1 400
graduates.
The Tourism Buddies Programme is an experiential hospitality training programme
targeting the unemployed youth to enable them to acquire skills and gain work experience
to enhance employability in the hospitality and tourism sector. The budget for the
programme is R140 million. Since its inception, this programme has produced 2 654
graduates.
The Sommeliers (Wine Servicing) Programme specialises in all aspects of wine service
as well as wine and food pairing. The role is much more specialised and informed than
that of a wine waiter in fine dining today. There were 245 learners who graduated and the
budget for the programme was R15 million.
Food Safety is a scientific discipline aimed at handling, preparing and storing food in
ways that prevent food-borne illnesses. This includes a number of routines that should
be followed to avoid potentially severe health hazards. As a pilot project, 100 Further
Education and Training Hospitality and Tourism unemployed graduates were trained and
have completed the programme with a 55% absorption rate. In the 2016/17 financial year,
the department plans to recruit and place 500 learners in this programme.

17
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Focus on your inventions...

18
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
South Africa's diplomacy
of Ubuntu is inspiring
excellence globally
South Africans of all walks of life have made our country proud
across various fields internationally, and they should be recognised
and celebrated
.
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
Ubuntu Arts And Cultural Diplomacy Award (Veteran): Hugh Masekela
South Africa's diplomacy
of Ubuntu is inspiring
excellence globally
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
South Africa's diplomacy
of Ubuntu is inspiring
excellence globally
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation

19
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

20
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA'S DIPLOMACY OF UBUNTU IS INSPIRING EXCELLENCE GLOBALLY
S
outh Africa is an influential
player in regional,
continental and global
political, economic and
trade affairs. In our capital
city, Pretoria, we host
the second-largest contingent of foreign
diplomatic representatives in the world.
South Africa maintains diplomatic relations
with countries and organisations through 125
missions in 107 countries abroad, and through
the accreditation of more than 160 countries
and organisations resident in South Africa.
The result? The image of our country abroad
is that of a stable and maturing democracy,
supported by strong institutions of political
and economic governance with a well-
capitalised banking system and abundant
natural resources.
This positive outlook of South Africa’s image
is in no small measure a result of the hard
work of our diplomats and other compatriots
who fly the flag high on the global stage.
 In tandem with our growing footprint in
the world, South Africa’s international trade
has escalated to high proportions, thereby
contributing towards job creation and poverty
eradication. South Africa is the second-largest
and most dynamic economy on the continent,
accounting for 24% of Africa’s gross domestic
product in terms of purchasing power parity.
Ours is also the second-largest developing
country investor on the continent. In 2013,
29% of our exports were destined for Africa. In
2012, 12% of our dividends came from Africa.
It is also significant to recognise that
despite global foreign direct investment (FDI)
falling by 16% in 2014, South Africa was able
to attract over R140 billion in the 2013/14
financial year. This is almost double the
amount of FDI in 2012. Again, FDI inflow to
South Africa was registered at US$3,31 billion
from January 2015 to July 2015 with 5 037
jobs created.
In addition, and contrary to international
trends, gross domestic fixed investment into
South Africa has been growing steadily since
the global financial crisis.
Multinationals continue to find South
Africa an attractive investment destination.
To underscore the point, some of the
multinationals from the most developed
economies in the world which currently
have operations in South Africa include: 700
from the United States of America; 600 from
the United Kingdom; 600 from Germany;
280 from Japan; 185 from France; and

21
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA'S DIPLOMACY OF UBUNTU IS INSPIRING EXCELLENCE GLOBALLY
various fields internationally, and they should
be recognised and celebrated.
Accordingly, the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation hosted the second
annual Ubuntu Awards on 13 February 2016
at the Cape Town International Convention
Centre. Each year, awards are given to
organisations or individuals who have, through
excellence, innovation, creativity, social
responsibility and patriotism, distinguished
themselves as true ambassadors of South
Africa and contributed to promoting South
Africa’s national interests and values across
the world.
The second annual Ubuntu Awards cut
across eight categories – from an economic
diplomacy award to social responsibility
diplomacy and the OR Tambo Lifetime
Achievement Award.
The Ubuntu Awards initiative is inspired by
South Africa’s foreign policy, which is driven by
the vision to achieve a united African continent
that is peaceful, democratic, non-racial, non-
sexist and prosperous and which contributes
to a world that is just and equitable.
South Africa pursues this vision, informed
by the values of Ubuntu (Humanity). The
spirit of Ubuntu is tightly woven in South
Africa’s moral fibre, more especially in our
interaction with fellow Africans and the
international community in general. South
Africa is implementing its diplomacy of Ubuntu
120 from India. Recently, VW committed an
additional R4,5 billion to its investment into
the South African market. Our diplomats
working with colleagues from the economic
cluster departments do the hard work behind
the scenes.
For a country that was isolated and
shunned by the international community
just over two decades ago, the role we have
played globally since 1994 is nothing short
of remarkable. South Africans of all walks
of life have made our country proud across

22
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
towards achieving its national interests within
a very complex and dynamic environment,
which requires that we creatively navigate
and find opportunities, working together with
our people at home and friends and partners
abroad.
Central to South Africa’s national interest is
to address the triple challenges of eradicating
poverty, unemployment and inequality.
While developing its people and creating
prosperity, South Africa’s national interest is,
however, not framed in narrow nationalistic
terms and recognises the importance of
others in the region and on the continent.
We will continue to strengthen our political
and economic relations with the aim of
enhancing bilateral political and economic
engagements by forging partnerships in the
various regions of the world.
Economic and political relations remain
important vehicles for cooperation and
promoting South Africa’s national priorities. The
national priorities of government, as well as the
needs of Africa such as the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development as espoused in the
National Development Plan, are also pursued in
bilateral relations.
Focus is also placed on the strengthening of
economic relations for the promotion of South
Africa’s trade, investment and tourism potential
and opportunities.
The African continent remains central in our
foreign policy, and this approach forms the
basis for our friendship, cooperation and peace
efforts all over the world. South Africa stands
for cooperation and partnership, instead of
competition, in global affairs.
We have been consistent in our support of
regional and continental processes to respond
to and resolve crises, strengthen regional
integration, significantly increase intra-African
trade and champion sustainable development
and opportunities in Africa. South Africa’s
foreign policy engagement is aligned with
Africa’s Agenda 2063 to contribute to the
socio-economic development of the African
continent. The struggle for a better life in
South Africa is intertwined with our pursuit of
a better Africa in a better world.
The strengthening of the African Union and
its structures is a strategic priority in deepening
the continental integration process.
Closer to home, the integration of the
Southern African Development Community
remains critical for the economic development
of the region and for South Africa’s global
competitiveness.
The forging of partnerships with countries
of the South are critical to advancing not only
South Africa’s own development needs and
also alleviating domestic challenges, but also
the African Agenda and to create political,
economic and social convergence for the
Ubuntu Social Responsibility Award:
Motsepe Foundation
Ubuntu Economic Diplomacy (Africa):
Standard Bank
Ubuntu Lifetime Achievement Award: Johnny Makhathini (posthumously) received by his wife, Valerie Ubuntu Ambassadorial Excellence
Award: Ambassador Bene L M’poko
Ubuntu Sport Diplomacy Award:
Wayde van Niekerk
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICA'S DIPLOMACY OF UBUNTU IS INSPIRING EXCELLENCE GLOBALLY

23
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
i
In March 2016, South African Wayde van Niekerk became the first runner to break
10 seconds for the 100 metres, 20 seconds for the 200 m and 44 seconds for the 400 m.
The world 400-m champion had previously broken the marks on the two longer distances
before running 9.98 sec over 100 m in Bloemfontein on Saturday, 12 March. Van Niekerk
was helped by a legal 1,5 m/s tailwind and the 1 300 m altitude at the track. Before that,
the 23-year-old's 100 m personal best (PB) was 10.45s, although that was back in 2011.
His 200 m PB is 19.94s while he ran 43.48s in winning the world title in Beijing last year.
He will, however, be running only the 400 m at the Rio Olympics later this year.
news24.com
fight against poverty, underdevelopment and
the marginalisation of the South. South Africa
will continue to promote the strengthening
of South-South cooperation and support the
Agenda of the South in all relevant fora.
We will also continue to utilise the
already established bilateral and multilateral
engagements to consolidate and strengthen
relations with strategic formations of the North
to advance and support national priorities, the
African Agenda and the Development Agenda
of the South.
In the execution of our foreign policy, taking
into account this reality, and consolidating
our traditional trade ties while expanding
new ones, we shall ensure that we remain
an active and responsible global citizen,
grounded in our values and principles.
This year’s Ubuntu Awards laureates have
once again inspired us to be the best South
Africans that we can be, and remind us that
when we work together, we can and will
continue to move South Africa forward by
creating a better Africa and a better world for
all.
The 2016 Ubuntu Awards winners are:
• Ubuntu Economic Diplomacy (Africa):
Standard Bank
• Ubuntu Economic Diplomacy
(Global): Discovery
• Ubuntu Social Responsibility Award:
Motsepe Foundation and Rescue SA
• Ubuntu Arts and Cultural Diplomacy
Ubuntu Lifetime Achievement Award: Agnes Msimang
Ubuntu Social Responsibility Award:
Rescue SA
Ubuntu Economic Diplomacy (Global):
Discovery
Ubuntu Youth Diplomacy Award:
Catherine Constantinides
Ubuntu Social Responsibility Award:
Motsepe Foundation
Ubuntu Ambassadorial Excellence
Award: Ambassador Bene L M’poko
DIPLOMACYSOUTH AFRICA'S DIPLOMACY OF UBUNTU IS INSPIRING EXCELLENCE GLOBALLY
Award (Contemporary): Black Coffee
• Ubuntu Arts and Cultural Diplomacy
Award (Veteran): Hugh Masekela
• Ubuntu Youth Diplomacy Award:
Catherine Constantinides
• Ubuntu Sport Diplomacy Award:
Wayde van Niekerk
• Ubuntu Ambassadorial Excellence
Award: Ambassador Bene L M’poko
• Ubuntu Lifetime Achievement
Award: Agnes Msimang and Johnny
Makhathini (posthumously).

24
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
A
frica’s growth and
development narrative is
changing. To do business
well in Africa today requires
more than traditional
economic analysis.
It requires an understanding that Africa is
a very diverse continent, with a vast array of
different social structures, political systems,
economies, products and markets.
 For this reason, there is no single African
growth story. No business that seeks to
operate across the continent can pursue a
single African growth strategy.
Africa is simply too large and too diverse.
Yet, despite all this variety, most African
economies share common features.
Most are reliant on the extraction and
export of raw materials. Most are constrained
by inadequate infrastructure, low skills levels
and limited industrial capacity. This exposes
many African economies to fluctuations in
commodity prices and depressed global
demand.
The lack of industrial capacity means that
many African countries are unable to extract
sufficient value from their natural resources.
They are not able to realise the potential
benefits for job creation, improved export
earnings and inclusive growth.
 That is the part of the African story we
know well.
However, the African story is changing.
Africa’s future depends not so much on the
rise of commodity prices but on the expansion
and development of its human capital.
A continent of over a billion people, Africa
is said to have the fastest-growing middle
class in the world. Opportunities that were
not available a mere generation ago, are now
within reach of millions more people.
More Africans are educated, more are
employed, more own assets.
Africa has a young and rapidly expanding
workforce.
Over the next few decades, as many other
countries grapple with the challenges of an
ageing workforce, Africa has the potential
to become the most vibrant, innovative and
productive region in the world.
However, to achieve this potential, African
countries, individually and collectively, need
to pursue deliberate political, social and
economic measures. Many of these measures
are described in the African Union’s (AU)
Agenda 2063. And many of them are being
implemented.
Even as many economies still rely on
commodity exports, there is significant
investment in other sectors. The growth
in retail banking, telecommunications,
information technology and niche and finished
goods has been remarkable.
African economies are becoming more
diverse, more industrialised and more
innovative.
Today, a large proportion of transfers in
foreign currency is not carried out through
the international banks, but through mobile
money remittances from the African Diaspora.
Several African airlines, led by the likes of
Kenya Airways and Ethiopian Airlines, are
becoming more commercial viable, investing
in new aircraft, opening up new routes and
increasing intra-Africa commerce and trade.
In countries like Nigeria and Kenya, even
with limited Internet connectivity, innovative
technological solutions are improving the lives
of rural communities.
Cellphone-based technologies are
revolutionising the practice of medicine.
Thanks to apps being developed on the African
continent, a health worker at a rural clinic can
refer an issue for specialist diagnosis, in real
time, by simply taking a cellphone photo of a
patient’s eye.
African economies have both the potential
and ability to leapfrog advanced economies
in developing technologies suitable for local
conditions and needs.
Economic change in Africa is taking place
alongside political change.
Governments are increasingly concerned
with the need for stability as a precondition
for economic growth and social development.
African countries are more united than ever
before in promoting good governance,
regional integration and multilateralism.
Through our work in the African Union, we are
steadily establishing an integrated community
that values accountability, good governance
and transparency. Through a strong peer
review mechanism, we are seeing less
conflict.
With some notable exceptions, changes in
government take place through the ballot box
and not through the barrel of a gun. More than
ever, Africa is resolving its challenges through
mediation, peace and dialogue.
 African countries are working hard to
transform their economies.
Governments are supporting programmes
that promote manufacturing and
competitiveness. They are encouraging new
growth opportunities by investing in economic
and social infrastructure.
Importantly, African countries are
collaborating on cross-border infrastructure
projects that foster greater integration and
trade.
Thanks to apps being developed on the African
continent, a health worker at a rural clinic can
refer an issue for specialist diagnosis, in real
time, by simply taking a cellphone photo of a
patient’s eye
.
DIPLOMACY THE AFRICAN STORY IS CHANGING
The African story
is changing
A continent of over a billion people, Africa is said
to have the fastest-growing middle class in the
world
. Opportunities that were not available a mere
generation ago, are now within reach of millions
more people
.
By Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa

25
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Many of these fall under the auspices of
the Presidential Infrastructure Championing
Initiative, headed by President Jacob Zuma.
This initiative is providing political leadership
to projects such as the Trans-Saharan
Highway between Algeria and Nigeria, the
Grand Inga Dam in the Democratic Republic
of Congo, and the North-South Corridor in
southern Africa.
In South Africa, we are undertaking a
massive infrastructure investment programme
overseen by the Presidential Infrastructure
Coordinating Commission.
It is improving the capacity of our economy
through better roads, ports, railways,
electricity generation capacity and water
infrastructure.
 It is improving people’s lives through new
hospitals, clinics, schools and bus rapid
transit systems.
It is part of a broader economic strategy
that seeks to grow the economy by increasing
investment in productive economic sectors
such as manufacturing and agriculture.
Central to the economic future of our
country is the development of the skills of its
people.
Nowhere has the impact of apartheid
been more keenly felt than in education.
By depriving generations of black South
Africans of a decent education, the apartheid
government sought to deny them and their
descendants a prosperous future.
We have allocated R640 billion to basic
education over the next three years. Much of
this will go to improving school infrastructure,
ensuring all learners receive suitable learning
materials and improving teacher training.
We have significantly expanded access to
higher education, and have increased the
funding available to poor students through
the National Student Financial Aid Scheme
(NSFAS).
The amount disbursed annually by NSFAS
has grown by approximately 270% since
2008, and is budgeted to grow even further
in the next few years. However, funding of
higher education remains a critical problem.
We need to ensure that no-one is excluded
from higher education because of an inability
to pay. At the same time, we need to find
funding mechanisms that are sustainable and
ensure a high quality of education. No country
has managed to achieve what we are seeking
to achieve without affordable, accessible and
quality higher education.
As a country, we must move with speed
and purpose to address these fundamental
issues of access, transformation and quality
outcomes.
There are many ways to describe Africa’s
recent progress and the expectations that
many have of its imminent economic and
social emergence.
One of the most compelling accounts
of what we are witnessing in Africa today
was written over a century ago by Pixley ka
Isaka Seme: “The brighter day is rising upon
Africa. Already I seem to see her chains
dissolved, her desert plains red with harvest,
her Abyssinia and her Zululand the seats of
science and religion, reflecting the glory of the
rising sun from the spires of their churches
and universities.
“Her Congo and her Gambia whitened
with commerce, her crowded cities sending
forth the hum of business, and all her sons
employed in advancing the victories of peace
– greater and more abiding than the spoils of
war.
“Yes, the regeneration of Africa belongs to
this new and powerful period!”
DIPLOMACYTHE AFRICAN STORY IS CHANGING

26
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
DIPLOMACY AFRICA’S EDUCATION AND GENDER EQUALITY GOALS “WELL ACHIEVED”
Africa’s education and
gender equality goals
“well achieved”
''Since mid-2000, Africa’s (gross domestic product) growth has been high,
averaging 5%, and well above the global average of 3% per year, instilling
optimism about the continent’s economic prospects
.''
A
frica is on track with goals
such as promoting gender
equality and empowering
women, according to
the 2015 Millennium
Development Goals Report
released at the 10th African Economic
Conference, which was held in Kinshasa,
Democratic Republic of Congo, in November
2015.
Increasing government spending on
healthcare, education and support of
vulnerable groups such as the elderly, were
key topics discussed by experts at the
conference.
The annual conference was organised by
the African Development Bank (AfDB), the
United Nations (UN) Development Programme
and the UN Economic Commission for Africa.
The theme of the event was: “Addressing
Poverty and Inequality in the Post-2015
Development Agenda”. It provided a forum
to explore the policy, institutional and
investment frameworks needed to
boost Africa’s equitable, inclusive and
environmentally sustainable development.
Pali Lehohla, Statistician-General of
Statistics South Africa, was one of the
speakers at the event.
The conference discussions included a
debate about the call from economists for
better policies to promote income distribution
in Africa.
The AfDB said while Africa as a whole
had made considerable progress on poverty
reduction since the mid-1990s as a result of
rapid economic growth, it had yet to have a
significant impact on income distribution.
“Since mid-2000, Africa’s (gross domestic
product) growth has been high, averaging 5%,
and well above the global average of 3% per
year, instilling optimism about the continent’s
economic prospects. However, the growth
has not been inclusive or equitable, and has
made little impact on poverty. The bank also
said that better social policies could enhance
income growth and income distribution,
including “improving the complementarity
between physical capital and education,
especially at the basic educational level”.
In addition, there was a need for policy-
makers in Africa to put greater emphasis on
addressing income inequality; empowering
women; narrowing the gaps in health, nutrition
and education; and challenging prejudices
and stereotypes that fed discrimination and
marginalisation.
Speaking at the conference, Steve Kayizzi-
Mugerwa, the acting vice-president and chief
economist of AfDB, underscored the need
to take into account the political economy to
effectively address income inequalities.
“Public policy needs to take (into) account
the role of local bureaucracy because
they are affected by the same policies,”
Kayizzi-Mugerwa said, pointing out that

27
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIPLOMACYAFRICA’S EDUCATION AND GENDER EQUALITY GOALS “WELL ACHIEVED”
economic managers needed to consult local
administrative structures in policy formulation
to make it effective. He also spoke about
agricultural productivity and industrialisation
as necessary to feed the continent and for it
to achieve sustainable development.
According to experts, a small number
of African countries is relying primarily on
improving income distribution to reduce
poverty. However, worsening income
distribution is the major culprit in the majority of
countries experiencing poverty exacerbation.
Statistics also show that other regions of the
world have performed better, showing that the
gap between Africa and the developed world
is increasing. This suggests that Africa must
perform even better and set up measures to
address income inequality to catch up with the
rest of the world.
There was a greater risk of high inequality
in resource-dependent countries as 55%
of resource-rich countries had experienced
an increase in inequality compared to 50%
of non-resource-rich countries, Professor
Haroon Bhorat of the University of Cape
Town argued in his presentation, “Resource
Dependence and Inequality in Africa: Impact,
Consequence and Solutions”.
He pointed out that high resource-
dependent economies were associated with
lower levels of civil-society organisation,
less transparent electoral processes and
less effective government. Prof. Bhorat
argued that drivers of inequality in resource-
dependent economies included high initial
capital cost of entry into natural resources and
poor employment generation. “There is need
for strong institutions and good governance
to manage resources. There is also a need
for greater emphasis on social protection,” he
said, adding that while there were no clear
success stories, countries such as Ghana
and Botswana could provide some positive
lessons to guide institutional arrangements
that governed resource wealth.
Report on Africa’s goals
The Millennium Development Goals Report
revealed that three of the seven goals for
Africa were on track. These were:
• combating HIV, AIDS, malaria and
other diseases: a downward trend is
observed in the incidence, prevalence
and death rates associated with HIV,
AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis,
especially since 2000
• promoting gender equality and
empowering women: for example,
Africa has made the most progress in
increasing the number of seats held
by women in national parliaments,
with an average increase of 15%
between 2000 and 2014
• achieving universal primary education:
the average primary completion rate
Africa has made the most progress in increasing
the number of seats held by women in national
parliaments, with an average increase of 15% between
2000 and 2014.
''AfDB also said that better social policies could
enhance income growth and income distribution,
including “improving the complementarity between
physical capital and education, especially at the
basic educational level
.''
stands at 67%, and the youth literacy
rate reached 69,61% in 2012, in part
owing to increased access to universal
primary education.
The goals that were not on track in Africa,
were:
• Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger:
poverty is perpetuated by, among
others, rising inequalities,
unemployment, the youth bulge,
unplanned urbanisation, lack of
diversification. Hunger declined by
8% in Africa excluding, North Africa,
between 1990 and 2013.
• Reduce child mortality: the under-five
mortality rate fell by 55% between
1990 and 2012, while the infant
mortality rate fell by 40%. Only Egypt,
Liberia, Malawi and Tunisia achieved
both targets on reducing child
mortality.
• Improve maternal health: by 2013,
Africa had 289 maternal deaths per
100 000 live births, compared to the
world average of 210 maternal deaths
per 100 000 live births.
• Ensure environmental sustainability:
adressing the declining forest cover
in Africa.
More than 250 participants from across the
continent and outside it, including policy-
makers, academics and leaders of civil
society and the private sector attended the
10th African Economic Conference.
African Development Bank Group / www.southafrica.info

28
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
16 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 10
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
,YE[IMMWEKPSFEPPIEHIVSJ-RJSVQEXMSRERH
'SQQYRMGEXMSRW8IGLRSPSK]-'8WSPYXMSRW'SRXMRYSYWP]
MRRSZEXMRKFEWIHSRGYWXSQIVRIIHW[IEVIGSQQMXXIH
XSIRLERGMRKGYWXSQIVI\TIVMIRGIWERHGVIEXMRKQE\MQYQ
ZEPYIJSVXIPIGSQWGEVVMIVWIRXIVTVMWIWERHGSRWYQIVW
3YVXIPIGSQWRIX[SVOIUYMTQIRX-RJSVQEXMSR8IGLRSPSK]
-8TVSHYGXWERHWSPYXMSRWERHWQEVXHIZMGIWEVIYWIHMR
GSYRXVMIWERHVIKMSRW,YE[IMVEROIHXLSRXLI
+PSFEP*SVXYRIFEWIHSRMXWVIZIRYIMR-R
XLIGSQTER]´WVIZIRYIVIEGLIHETTVS\MQEXIP]
97(FMPPMSR
;IMRZIWXSZIV	SJSYVERRYEPWEPIWVIZIRYIMRXS
VIWIEVGLERHHIZIPSTQIRX6
(ERHQSVIXLER	SJ
SYVIQTPS]IIWIRKEKIMR6
(0IZIVEKMRKSYV
I\TIVMIRGIERHI\TIVXMWIMRXLI-'8WIGXSV[ILIPTFVMHKI
XLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIERHTVSQSXILMKLUYEPMX]FVSEHFERH
GSRRIGXMZMX]JSVEPP%WEREHZSGEXISJWSGMSIGSRSQMG
WYWXEMREFMPMX][IQEOIIZIV]IJJSVXXSWYTTSVXWIGYVI
ERHWXEFPIRIX[SVOSTIVEXMSRWERHLIPTGYWXSQIVWERH
MRHYWXVMIWMQTVSZIIJ½GMIRG]XSHVMZIPS[GEVFSRIGSRSQMG
KVS[XL&]PSGEPMWMRKSYVSTIVEXMSRWERHFYMPHMRKEKPSFEP
ZEPYIGLEMR[ILIPTPSGEPMRRSZEXSVWQE\MQMWIXLIMVKPSFEP
ZEPYIERHWLEVI[MR[MRSYXGSQIW
%FIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPHMWSRXLILSVM^SR;SVOMRK
GPSWIP][MXLTEVXRIVW[IIRHIEZSYVXSFYMPHERIJ½GMIRX
ERHMRXIKVEXIHHMKMXEPPSKMWXMGWW]WXIQ[LMGL[MPPIRLERGI
MRXIVGSRRIGXMZMX]ERHMRXIVEGXMZMX]¯FIX[IIRTISTPI
ERHTISTPITISTPIERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKW¯XS
WTEVOMR½RMXISTTSVXYRMXMIWERHTSXIRXMEPJSVIZIV]SRI
IZIV][LIVIERHXSQSZIXLI[SVPHJSV[EVH
&YMPHMRKEFIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPH
+VS[MRK[MXL%JVMGE
-R%JVMGE,YE[IMLEWIWXEFPMWLIHXLVIIVIKMSREP
LIEHUYEVXIVWREQIP]2SVXLIVR%JVMGE;IWXIVR
%JVMGE)EWXIVRERH7SYXLIVR%JVMGE8LIWIVIKMSRW
GSRWMWXSJWYFWMHMEVMIWGSZIVMRKQSVIXLER
GSYRXVMIW;ILEZIWIZIRGIRXVIWTVSZMHMRKXVEMRMRK
XSQSVIXLERXVEMRIIWERRYEPP]-RXSXEP
,YE[IMIQTPS]IIWSJ[LSQ	EVIPSGEPIQTPS]IIW
GSRXVMFYXIXSWIXYTLEPJSJXLI[MVIPIWWFEWIWXEXMSRW
ERHOQSJSTXMGEP½FVISRXLIGSRXMRIRX
Corporate citizenship
,YE[IM´WOI]WXVEXIKMIWMR%JVMGEMRGPYHIGYWXSQIV
GIRXVMGKVIIRMRRSZEXMSRERHWSGMEPVIWTSRWMFMPMX]
,YE[IMMWGSQQMXXIHXSFIMRKEKPSFEPP]VIWTSRWMFPI
GSVTSVEXIGMXM^IRGSRXVMFYXMRKXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJHMJJIVIRXGEXIKSVMIWMRGPYHMRKXLI
IRZMVSRQIRXLIEPXLIHYGEXMSRERHGSQQYRMX]
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy and
Management
,YE[IMMWHIHMGEXIHXSIRWYVMRKXLEXEPPTISTPI
GERIRNS]XLIFEWMGVMKLXWSJGSQQYRMGEXMSRWERH
MRJSVQEXMSRWIVZMGIW(YVMRKSYVGSQQIVGMEPEGXMZMXMIW
[IEPWSEXXEGLKVIEXMQTSVXERGIXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJWSGMIX]ERHXLIIRZMVSRQIRX
ERHGSRXMRYSYWP]IRVMGLMRKTISTPI´WPMZIWXLVSYKL
GSQQYRMGEXMSRW

Bridging the digital divide
,YE[IMETTPMIWMXWTVSJIWWMSREPI\TIVMIRGIMRXLI-8
½IPHXSFVMHKIXLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIWSXLEXTISTPIGERIRNS]
GSQQYRMGEXMSRWWIVZMGIWERHI\TIVMIRGIWER]XMQI
ER][LIVIXLVSYKLER]XIVQMREP
Environmental protection
)RZMVSRQIRXEPHIXIVMSVEXMSRERHEGGIPIVEXIHKPSFEP
[EVQMRKLEZITSWIHKVIEXGLEPPIRKIWXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJXLI[SVPHIGSRSQ]-RXLIXIPIGSQW
MRHYWXV]IRIVK]WEZMRKERHIQMWWMSRVIHYGXMSR
QIEWYVIWLEZIFIGSQIMQTIVEXMZI
Supply chain
,YE[IMMRWMWXWSRIXLMGEPERHKVIIRTVSGYVIQIRX
ETTVSEGLIWERHMQTVSZIW'76QEREKIQIRXMRMXWWYTTP]
GLEMRXSIRWYVIXLEXTVSHYGXTVSGYVIQIRXQIIXW'76
VIUYMVIQIRXWERHVIEPMWIWSYVWXVEXIKMGKSEPW
UBUNTU Huawei advertorial .indd   All Pages 2015/11/24   10:33 AM
UBUNTU_MAGAZINE-10 .indd   16 2015/11/25   12:45 PM
17Issue 10 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
,YE[IMMWEKPSFEPPIEHIVSJ-RJSVQEXMSRERH
'SQQYRMGEXMSRW8IGLRSPSK]-'8WSPYXMSRW'SRXMRYSYWP]
MRRSZEXMRKFEWIHSRGYWXSQIVRIIHW[IEVIGSQQMXXIH
XSIRLERGMRKGYWXSQIVI\TIVMIRGIWERHGVIEXMRKQE\MQYQ
ZEPYIJSVXIPIGSQWGEVVMIVWIRXIVTVMWIWERHGSRWYQIVW
3YVXIPIGSQWRIX[SVOIUYMTQIRX-RJSVQEXMSR8IGLRSPSK]
-8TVSHYGXWERHWSPYXMSRWERHWQEVXHIZMGIWEVIYWIHMR
GSYRXVMIWERHVIKMSRW,YE[IMVEROIHXLSRXLI
+PSFEP*SVXYRIFEWIHSRMXWVIZIRYIMR-R
XLIGSQTER]´WVIZIRYIVIEGLIHETTVS\MQEXIP]
97(FMPPMSR
;IMRZIWXSZIV	SJSYVERRYEPWEPIWVIZIRYIMRXS
VIWIEVGLERHHIZIPSTQIRX6
(ERHQSVIXLER	SJ
SYVIQTPS]IIWIRKEKIMR6
(0IZIVEKMRKSYV
I\TIVMIRGIERHI\TIVXMWIMRXLI-'8WIGXSV[ILIPTFVMHKI
XLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIERHTVSQSXILMKLUYEPMX]FVSEHFERH
GSRRIGXMZMX]JSVEPP%WEREHZSGEXISJWSGMSIGSRSQMG
WYWXEMREFMPMX][IQEOIIZIV]IJJSVXXSWYTTSVXWIGYVI
ERHWXEFPIRIX[SVOSTIVEXMSRWERHLIPTGYWXSQIVWERH
MRHYWXVMIWMQTVSZIIJ½GMIRG]XSHVMZIPS[GEVFSRIGSRSQMG
KVS[XL&]PSGEPMWMRKSYVSTIVEXMSRWERHFYMPHMRKEKPSFEP
ZEPYIGLEMR[ILIPTPSGEPMRRSZEXSVWQE\MQMWIXLIMVKPSFEP
ZEPYIERHWLEVI[MR[MRSYXGSQIW
%FIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPHMWSRXLILSVM^SR;SVOMRK
GPSWIP][MXLTEVXRIVW[IIRHIEZSYVXSFYMPHERIJ½GMIRX
ERHMRXIKVEXIHHMKMXEPPSKMWXMGWW]WXIQ[LMGL[MPPIRLERGI
MRXIVGSRRIGXMZMX]ERHMRXIVEGXMZMX]¯FIX[IIRTISTPI
ERHTISTPITISTPIERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKW¯XS
WTEVOMR½RMXISTTSVXYRMXMIWERHTSXIRXMEPJSVIZIV]SRI
IZIV][LIVIERHXSQSZIXLI[SVPHJSV[EVH
&YMPHMRKEFIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPH
+VS[MRK[MXL%JVMGE
-R%JVMGE,YE[IMLEWIWXEFPMWLIHXLVIIVIKMSREP
LIEHUYEVXIVWREQIP]2SVXLIVR%JVMGE;IWXIVR
%JVMGE)EWXIVRERH7SYXLIVR%JVMGE8LIWIVIKMSRW
GSRWMWXSJWYFWMHMEVMIWGSZIVMRKQSVIXLER
GSYRXVMIW;ILEZIWIZIRGIRXVIWTVSZMHMRKXVEMRMRK
XSQSVIXLERXVEMRIIWERRYEPP]-RXSXEP
,YE[IMIQTPS]IIWSJ[LSQ	EVIPSGEPIQTPS]IIW
GSRXVMFYXIXSWIXYTLEPJSJXLI[MVIPIWWFEWIWXEXMSRW
ERHOQSJSTXMGEP½FVISRXLIGSRXMRIRX
Corporate citizenship
,YE[IM´WOI]WXVEXIKMIWMR%JVMGEMRGPYHIGYWXSQIV
GIRXVMGKVIIRMRRSZEXMSRERHWSGMEPVIWTSRWMFMPMX]
,YE[IMMWGSQQMXXIHXSFIMRKEKPSFEPP]VIWTSRWMFPI
GSVTSVEXIGMXM^IRGSRXVMFYXMRKXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJHMJJIVIRXGEXIKSVMIWMRGPYHMRKXLI
IRZMVSRQIRXLIEPXLIHYGEXMSRERHGSQQYRMX]
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy and
Management
,YE[IMMWHIHMGEXIHXSIRWYVMRKXLEXEPPTISTPI
GERIRNS]XLIFEWMGVMKLXWSJGSQQYRMGEXMSRWERH
MRJSVQEXMSRWIVZMGIW(YVMRKSYVGSQQIVGMEPEGXMZMXMIW
[IEPWSEXXEGLKVIEXMQTSVXERGIXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJWSGMIX]ERHXLIIRZMVSRQIRX
ERHGSRXMRYSYWP]IRVMGLMRKTISTPI´WPMZIWXLVSYKL
GSQQYRMGEXMSRW

Bridging the digital divide
,YE[IMETTPMIWMXWTVSJIWWMSREPI\TIVMIRGIMRXLI-8
½IPHXSFVMHKIXLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIWSXLEXTISTPIGERIRNS]
GSQQYRMGEXMSRWWIVZMGIWERHI\TIVMIRGIWER]XMQI
ER][LIVIXLVSYKLER]XIVQMREP
Environmental protection
)RZMVSRQIRXEPHIXIVMSVEXMSRERHEGGIPIVEXIHKPSFEP
[EVQMRKLEZITSWIHKVIEXGLEPPIRKIWXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJXLI[SVPHIGSRSQ]-RXLIXIPIGSQW
MRHYWXV]IRIVK]WEZMRKERHIQMWWMSRVIHYGXMSR
QIEWYVIWLEZIFIGSQIMQTIVEXMZI
Supply chain
,YE[IMMRWMWXWSRIXLMGEPERHKVIIRTVSGYVIQIRX
ETTVSEGLIWERHMQTVSZIW'76QEREKIQIRXMRMXWWYTTP]
GLEMRXSIRWYVIXLEXTVSHYGXTVSGYVIQIRXQIIXW'76
VIUYMVIQIRXWERHVIEPMWIWSYVWXVEXIKMGKSEPW
UBUNTU Huawei advertorial .indd   All Pages 2015/11/24   10:33 AM
UBUNTU_MAGAZINE-10 .indd   17 2015/11/25   12:45 PM

29
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  17Issue 10 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIRCOzawww.dirco.gov.za @theDIRCOza thedircoza
,YE[IMMWEKPSFEPPIEHIVSJ-RJSVQEXMSRERH
'SQQYRMGEXMSRW8IGLRSPSK]-'8WSPYXMSRW'SRXMRYSYWP]
MRRSZEXMRKFEWIHSRGYWXSQIVRIIHW[IEVIGSQQMXXIH
XSIRLERGMRKGYWXSQIVI\TIVMIRGIWERHGVIEXMRKQE\MQYQ
ZEPYIJSVXIPIGSQWGEVVMIVWIRXIVTVMWIWERHGSRWYQIVW
3YVXIPIGSQWRIX[SVOIUYMTQIRX-RJSVQEXMSR8IGLRSPSK]
-8TVSHYGXWERHWSPYXMSRWERHWQEVXHIZMGIWEVIYWIHMR
GSYRXVMIWERHVIKMSRW,YE[IMVEROIHXLSRXLI
+PSFEP*SVXYRIFEWIHSRMXWVIZIRYIMR-R
XLIGSQTER]´WVIZIRYIVIEGLIHETTVS\MQEXIP]
97(FMPPMSR
;IMRZIWXSZIV	SJSYVERRYEPWEPIWVIZIRYIMRXS
VIWIEVGLERHHIZIPSTQIRX6
(ERHQSVIXLER	SJ
SYVIQTPS]IIWIRKEKIMR6
(0IZIVEKMRKSYV
I\TIVMIRGIERHI\TIVXMWIMRXLI-'8WIGXSV[ILIPTFVMHKI
XLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIERHTVSQSXILMKLUYEPMX]FVSEHFERH
GSRRIGXMZMX]JSVEPP%WEREHZSGEXISJWSGMSIGSRSQMG
WYWXEMREFMPMX][IQEOIIZIV]IJJSVXXSWYTTSVXWIGYVI
ERHWXEFPIRIX[SVOSTIVEXMSRWERHLIPTGYWXSQIVWERH
MRHYWXVMIWMQTVSZIIJ½GMIRG]XSHVMZIPS[GEVFSRIGSRSQMG
KVS[XL&]PSGEPMWMRKSYVSTIVEXMSRWERHFYMPHMRKEKPSFEP
ZEPYIGLEMR[ILIPTPSGEPMRRSZEXSVWQE\MQMWIXLIMVKPSFEP
ZEPYIERHWLEVI[MR[MRSYXGSQIW
%FIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPHMWSRXLILSVM^SR;SVOMRK
GPSWIP][MXLTEVXRIVW[IIRHIEZSYVXSFYMPHERIJ½GMIRX
ERHMRXIKVEXIHHMKMXEPPSKMWXMGWW]WXIQ[LMGL[MPPIRLERGI
MRXIVGSRRIGXMZMX]ERHMRXIVEGXMZMX]¯FIX[IIRTISTPI
ERHTISTPITISTPIERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKWERHXLMRKW¯XS
WTEVOMR½RMXISTTSVXYRMXMIWERHTSXIRXMEPJSVIZIV]SRI
IZIV][LIVIERHXSQSZIXLI[SVPHJSV[EVH
&YMPHMRKEFIXXIVGSRRIGXIH[SVPH
+VS[MRK[MXL%JVMGE
-R%JVMGE,YE[IMLEWIWXEFPMWLIHXLVIIVIKMSREP
LIEHUYEVXIVWREQIP]2SVXLIVR%JVMGE;IWXIVR
%JVMGE)EWXIVRERH7SYXLIVR%JVMGE8LIWIVIKMSRW
GSRWMWXSJWYFWMHMEVMIWGSZIVMRKQSVIXLER
GSYRXVMIW;ILEZIWIZIRGIRXVIWTVSZMHMRKXVEMRMRK
XSQSVIXLERXVEMRIIWERRYEPP]-RXSXEP
,YE[IMIQTPS]IIWSJ[LSQ	EVIPSGEPIQTPS]IIW
GSRXVMFYXIXSWIXYTLEPJSJXLI[MVIPIWWFEWIWXEXMSRW
ERHOQSJSTXMGEP½FVISRXLIGSRXMRIRX
Corporate citizenship
,YE[IM´WOI]WXVEXIKMIWMR%JVMGEMRGPYHIGYWXSQIV
GIRXVMGKVIIRMRRSZEXMSRERHWSGMEPVIWTSRWMFMPMX]
,YE[IMMWGSQQMXXIHXSFIMRKEKPSFEPP]VIWTSRWMFPI
GSVTSVEXIGMXM^IRGSRXVMFYXMRKXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJHMJJIVIRXGEXIKSVMIWMRGPYHMRKXLI
IRZMVSRQIRXLIEPXLIHYGEXMSRERHGSQQYRMX]
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Strategy and
Management
,YE[IMMWHIHMGEXIHXSIRWYVMRKXLEXEPPTISTPI
GERIRNS]XLIFEWMGVMKLXWSJGSQQYRMGEXMSRWERH
MRJSVQEXMSRWIVZMGIW(YVMRKSYVGSQQIVGMEPEGXMZMXMIW
[IEPWSEXXEGLKVIEXMQTSVXERGIXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJWSGMIX]ERHXLIIRZMVSRQIRX
ERHGSRXMRYSYWP]IRVMGLMRKTISTPI´WPMZIWXLVSYKL
GSQQYRMGEXMSRW

Bridging the digital divide
,YE[IMETTPMIWMXWTVSJIWWMSREPI\TIVMIRGIMRXLI-8
½IPHXSFVMHKIXLIHMKMXEPHMZMHIWSXLEXTISTPIGERIRNS]
GSQQYRMGEXMSRWWIVZMGIWERHI\TIVMIRGIWER]XMQI
ER][LIVIXLVSYKLER]XIVQMREP
Environmental protection
)RZMVSRQIRXEPHIXIVMSVEXMSRERHEGGIPIVEXIHKPSFEP
[EVQMRKLEZITSWIHKVIEXGLEPPIRKIWXSXLIWYWXEMREFPI
HIZIPSTQIRXSJXLI[SVPHIGSRSQ]-RXLIXIPIGSQW
MRHYWXV]IRIVK]WEZMRKERHIQMWWMSRVIHYGXMSR
QIEWYVIWLEZIFIGSQIMQTIVEXMZI
Supply chain
,YE[IMMRWMWXWSRIXLMGEPERHKVIIRTVSGYVIQIRX
ETTVSEGLIWERHMQTVSZIW'76QEREKIQIRXMRMXWWYTTP]
GLEMRXSIRWYVIXLEXTVSHYGXTVSGYVIQIRXQIIXW'76
VIUYMVIQIRXWERHVIEPMWIWSYVWXVEXIKMGKSEPW
UBUNTU Huawei advertorial .indd   All Pages 2015/11/24   10:33 AM
UBUNTU_MAGAZINE-10 .indd   17 2015/11/25   12:45 PM

30
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
China and Africa united
by a common destiny
China and Africa have solid relations with each having a common vision
for a world that is prosperous and developed and where both can play a
meaningful role in global political and economic governance
.
DIPLOMACY CHINA AND AFRICA UNITED  BY A COMMON DESTINYDIPLOMACY
H
istory tells us that Africa’s
relations with China go way
back to the Ming Dynasty.
However, more recently,
formal political relations
were established in 1949,
which coincided with Africa claiming its
independence from its colonisers.
China and Africa have solid relations with
each having a common vision for a world
that is prosperous and developed and where
both can play a meaningful role in global
political and economic governance. In the
21st century, relations between Africa and
Chichi Maponya
CEO Maponya Group and Deputy Chairperson of the South African Council of Foreign Relations
China have become deeper and more formal
through the Forum on China-Africa Forum for
Cooperation (FOCAC).
The first summit was hosted by China
in 2006 and South Africa hosted the
second summit in Johannesburg from 4 to
5 December 2015.
The African Union Commission
Chairperson, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma,
described our relations succinctly when she
said: “The relationship between ourselves
and China is founded on four basic principles:
treating each other sincerely and equally;
consolidating solidarity and mutual trust;
jointly pursuing inclusive development; and
promoting inventive practical cooperation
between our countries.”
During FOCAC, relations between
China and Africa were further strengthened
with the adoption of the Declaration of
the Johannesburg Summit of FOCAC.
Most importantly, FOCAC ended with the
finalisation of a Strategic Vision for Win-Win
Cooperation.
The declaration is based on the five major
pillars that characterise relations between
Africa and China: political equality and
mutual trust, win-win economic cooperation,

31
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
CHINA AND AFRICA UNITED  BY A COMMON DESTINY DIPLOMACY
to improve Africa’s capacity for
internal and external trade and
investment and will negotiate free
trade agreements with countries and
regional organisations and increase
the import of African products.
• The China-Africa Poverty Reduction
Plan: China would cancel outstanding
debt in the form of zero-interest
loans borrowed by least developed
countries in Africa that matured at the
end of 2015.
• The China-Africa Public Health Plan:
China will support the building of the
African centre for disease control
and increase cooperation between
20 Chinese and African hospitals.
• China-Africa Cultural and People-
People Exchange: China will
build five cultural centres in Africa
and provide satellite reception to
10 000 African villages. China will
also sponsor 2 000 educational
opportunities with diplomas/degrees
and 30 000 government scholarships.
• The China-Africa Peace and Security
Plan: China will provide grants worth
US$60 million (R865,64 million) to
support the building and operation
of the African Standby Force and the
African Capacity for the Immediate
Response to Crisis.
China will provide additional funding support
to the implementation of the above plans:
US$5 billion of grant and zero-interest loans,
US$35 billion of loans of concessional nature
on more favourable terms and export credit
line, an increase of US$5 bilion to the China-
Africa Development Fund and the Special
Loan for the development of African small
and medium-sized enterprises, and the
China-Africa Fund for Production Capacity
Cooperation with the initial contribution of
US$10 billion. The implementation of these
agreements will see the continent moving
mutually enriching cultural exchanges,
mutual assistance in security and solidarity
and coordination in international affairs. Both
sides further agreed to leverage their social
and political capital – enhanced by their
combined population of 2,3 billion people – to
advocate for the reform of the global political
and economic governance architecture. To
achieve this successfully, however, African
countries and China must have the required
levels of development of their own economies.
The implementation of the FOCAC
Johannesburg Action Plan 2016 – 2018 will
go a long way towards ensuring growth and
development of African countries with the
support of China.
The action plan includes targeted
cooperation plans over the next three years
in the areas of industrialisation, agricultural
modernisation, infrastructure construction,
financial services, green development, trade
and investment facilitation, poverty reduction
and public welfare, public health, people-to-
people exchanges and peace and security.
The scope of the increased cooperation
incudes:
• The China-Africa Industrialisation
Plan: China will build or upgrade a
number of industrial parks and set up
regional vocational education centres
and schools for capacity-building.
China will also train 200 000 technical
personnel and provide 40 000 training
opportunities for Africans in China.
• China-Africa Agriculture
Modernisation: China will transfer
readily applicable technologies to
Africa and will encourage Chinese
enterprises to engage in large-scale
farming, animal husbandry as well as
grain storage and processing in Africa
to create jobs.
• The China-Africa Infrastructure Plan:
China will pursue mutually beneficial
cooperation in infrastructure planning,
design, construction, operation and
maintenance, particularly in the
sectors of railway, road, regional
aviation, ports, electricity and
telecommunications. China will also
support the establishment of five
transportation universities in Africa.
• China-Africa Green Development
Plan: China will increase capacity for
green, low-carbon and sustainable
development in Africa, which will
include support in launching 100
projects to develop clean energy,
protect wildlife and build smart cities.
• The China-Africa Trade and
Investment Facilitation Plan: China
will undertake 50 trade programmes
towards the vision of a prosperous, developed
and integrated Africa as envisaged by Agenda
2063.
Ahead of the FOCAC Summit, President
Jacob Zuma hosted President Xi Jinping
on a State Visit. The interactions between
the South African and Chinese delegations
concluded with the signing of 26 agreements.
As with Agenda 2063, the implementation of
these agreements will see South Africa make
strides towards the growth and development
of its economy. This will have a direct impact
on our socio-economic development. Some of
the key agreements include:
• The Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) on Jointly Building the Silk
Road Economic Belt and the 21st
Century Maritime Silk Road.
• The Agreement between the
Department of Environmental Affairs
and the NDRC on Strengthening
Cooperation in the Oceans Economy:
This agreement aims to promote
cooperation on the Oceans Economy
between the two countries and related
organisations and enterprises. This
agreement is directly aligned to South
Africa’s Operation Phakisa.
• The MoU on Cooperation in Health
and Medical Sciences between the
People’s Republic of China and the
Republic of South Africa: This MoU
will expand exchanges in the fields
of public health, healthcare delivery
systems and biomedical sciences, as
well as establish regular cooperation
between health institutions.
• The MoU on Cooperation and
Development on Science Parks: This
MoU will promote cooperation in
business incubation, high-end skills
development and information and
communications technology research
and development investment.
• The MoU between the Department
of Public Enterprises, Republic
The implementation of the FOCAC Johannesburg
Action Plan 2016 – 2018 will go a long way
towards ensuring growth and development of
African countries with the support of China.
Ahead of the FOCAC Summit, President Jacob
Zuma hosted President Xi Jinping on a State Visit.
The interactions between the South African and
Chinese delegations concluded with the signing of
26 agreements.

32
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
of South Africa, and the State-
Owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission of the
State Council, The People’s Republic
of China: This MOU will facilitate the
strengthening of cooperation in terms
of infrastructure construction projects,
information communications, as well
as cooperation between Chinese
and South African energy-related
companies.
• The Action Plan on Cooperation
in Human Resource Development
between the Department of Higher
Education and Training of the Republic
of South Africa and the Ministry of
Commerce of the People’s Republic
of China: 2 000 training opportunities
will be offered to South Africa for the
period 2015 to 2020.
• The MoU on Strategic Cooperation
entered into between Eskom and the
State Corporation of China: This MOU
will facilitate cooperation in the field
of energy and will also enable the
pursuit of commercial opportunities
and exchange information on projects
in geographic regions of mutual
interest in the fields of transmission
and distribution projects, renewable
energy projects and off-grid rural
electrification programmes.
• The Loan Agreement between the
China Development Bank Corporation
and Eskom: Eskom and the China
Development Bank will conclude a
loan agreement to facilitate South
Africa-China investment and trade
cooperation and to further support
Eskom’s infrastructure construction.
The loan facility is to the value of
US$500 million.
• The Framework Cooperation
Agreement between the China
Export Credit Insurance Corporation
(Sinosure) and Transnet: Sinosure will
provide insurance support to Transnet
up to a total amount of US$2,5 billion
to support procurement by Transnet
of mechanical and electrical products,
whole-set equipment from Chinese
enterprises, projects contracted by
Chinese enterprises in South Africa,
as well as operation, maintenance
and other related services.
• The Strategic Cooperation Agreement
to Fund Infrastructure and Industrial
Development Projects in South Africa
and the Rest of Africa between the
China Construction Bank Corporation
and Industrial Corporation of South
Africa (IDC) Limited: The parties will
fund infrastructure and industrial
development projects, directly and
indirectly, in South Africa and the
rest of Africa, subject to their internal
funding processes.
• The MoU between the Beijing
Automotive Group (BAIC) and the IDC:
The BAIC and the IDC will establish
motor-vehicle manufacturing facilities
in South Africa at a coastal city (either
Durban or East London), which will
create jobs and manufacture motor
vehicles for sale in South Africa and
the rest of the African continent.
• The Cooperation Framework
Agreement between the Trans
Caledon Tunnel Authority and the
China Communications Construction
Company: This agreement aims to
establish and develop long-term
cooperation to fund and implement
new projects in the water and
sanitation sector in South Africa.
• The Agreement on the Final
Acceptance for the CBERS-04
DIPLOMACY CHINA AND AFRICA UNITED  BY A COMMON DESTINYDIPLOMACY

33
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Satellite Ground System in South
Africa between the South African
National Space Agency (SANSA) and
the China Aerospace, Science and
Technology Corporation (CASC): The
CASC appointed the China Centre
for Earth Resource Satellite Data and
Application to build the CBERS-04
Satellite Ground System for SANSA.
The CBERS-04 Satellite Ground
System was formally handed over
to SANSA while President Xi Jinping
was in South Africa.
• The Collaboration and Framework
Agreement between the Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China and
Standard Bank South Africa: Standard
Bank South Africa and the Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China will
and infrastructure projects located in
China, South Africa or third countries
in sub-Saharan Africa to be invested
or developed by Chinese and/or
South African enterprises, among
other fields.
The extent of the agreements finalised both
for Africa and South Africa attests to the
strength of relations between China and the
continent.
The implementation of these agreements
will see both Africa and China achieve a vision
of a common destiny of growth, development
and prosperity. FOCAC 2015 must indeed
be remembered by historians as the point
at which relations between China and Africa
moved towards a strategic vision for win-win
cooperation.
cooperate to strengthen various
sectors of the South African economy,
with a particular focus on power and
infrastructure. The agreement is worth
up to R10 billion over the next five
years.
• The Cooperation Agreement between
Investec and the Export-Import Bank
of China: Investec Bank and the China
Export-Import Bank will cooperate in
projects to enhance trade between
China and South Africa in mechanical
and electronic products, complete
sets of equipment, high and new-
technology products, energy, raw
materials, agricultural products and
other products consistent with the
economic and industrial development
goals of both countries; and energy
CHINA AND AFRICA UNITED  BY A COMMON DESTINY DIPLOMACY

34
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
DIPLOMACY BEYOND SOLIDARITY: THE PREDICAMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA AND CUBA RELATIONS
34 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 10
Beyond solidarity: The
predicament of South
Africa and Cuba relations
While there is strong high-level affinity between the two countries, this is yet
to result in the flow of goods and services and movement of people (as
workers or tourists) between the two countries and their respective regions
.
A
t a reception dinner in
honour of the visiting
President of Cuba, Fidel
Castro, in 1998, President
Nelson Mandela said the
relations between Cuba and
South Africa were founded in “bonds that run
centuries deep, including a common heritage
of African dispossession as well as shared
struggle and pride in the restoration of human
By Siphamandla Zondi
University of South Africa’s (Unisa) Institute for Global Dialogue and Centre for Latin American and Caribbean Studies
dignity”. However, he also underlined the fact
that in the long run these bonds would be
sustained through cooperation to “overcome
the constraints on our development and
growth rooted in the current global system”.
Yes, the two countries are bonded by the
history of solidarity that defines also their
location in the geopolitics of the modern,
still colonial world system marked by a
prosperous and dominant centre occupied
by North America and Western Europe,
and a periphery made of former colonies,
most of which are blighted by poverty and
underdevelopment. This shaped their outlook,
orientation and role in the world.
Their commitment to not only end colonial
rule in national territories, but to decolonise
the world itself is born in this history.
Their shared need for change, restructuring
of global governance institutions, correcting

35
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIPLOMACYBEYOND SOLIDARITY: THE PREDICAMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA AND CUBA RELATIONS
35
injustices in the balance of power globally,
fairness in international trade and investment
and equity in global decision-making is derived
from their shared historical experiences.
Today, South Africa and Cuba enjoy very
warm political relations, complemented by
visible and productive cooperation in health
especially, and history has pushed them
together.
But these relations are yet to translate into
the meaningful economic, trade, cultural and
educational exchange that former President
Mandela argued was the future.
While there is strong high-level affinity
between the two countries, this is yet to
result in the flow of goods and services
and movement of people (as workers or
tourists) between the two countries and their
respective regions.
The thermometer of political relations is
high, but the fuel, which is concrete economic,
cultural and social cooperation, is observably
lower.
One must assume that there have been
earnest attempts to remedy this. When
I visited Cuba on behalf of the Unisa Centre
for Latin American and Caribbean Studies to
establish research and academic relations
in November 2015, Deputy President Cyril
Ramaphosa was also briefly in Havana and
so was Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma on
behalf of the African Union.
To cap this evidence that we are serious
about South Africa-Cuban relations, deputy
ministers of trade and industry, international
relations and cooperation as well as youth
affairs also visited.
I kept on wondering if beyond warming
up already warm relations, there was work
towards deepening concrete and mutually-
beneficial cooperation.
I wondered if we were not overwhelming
Cuba with solidarity when it was also poised
for new levels of economic, cultural, scientific
and social cooperation.
Privately, Cuban observers notice that
there is a lot of romance towards Cuba at a
time when that country is ready for deeper
cooperation in light of the changes in Cuba-
United States (US) relations in the past year.
They indicate that they worry that it will be
Western states that are lining up with projects
in infrastructure, tourism, telecommunications,
information and communications technology
and the ocean economy that might reap the
fruits of rapprochement with the USA rather
than old friends who remain just friendly
rather than strategic.
The time is now ripe for South Africa to
rethink its policy towards Cuba and the whole
of the Caribbean with a view to upgrading it
from romance to deeper cooperation that will
i
Current state of relations with Cuba
South Africa and Cuba enjoy cordial bilateral relations characterised by years of excellent
cooperation in various fields of common interest and mutual benefit.  Since the dawn of
democracy in 1994, these relations have further strengthened, and efforts have been
redoubled to ensure that both countries continue to work together and support each other
at various levels, including in multilateral fora and other strategic formations.
It is for this reason that South Africa looks forward to further strengthen its relations with
Cuba towards establishing a win-win partnership. A much stronger partnership with Cuba
will help build South Africa’s skills base, fast-track transfer of skills, create decent jobs,
address inequalities in both countries and promote inclusive growth.
South Africa and Cuba established the Joint Consultative Mechanism in 2001 at the
level of deputy ministers to regulate structured relations between the two countries. The
two countries have since 1994 signed a number of agreements in various sectors and
cooperated in a number of fields. South Africa is a beneficiary of Cuba’s ongoing assistance
in the areas of health, labour, defence, social development, housing and infrastructure.
During the State Visit to Cuba in December 2010, President Jacob Zuma announced
that South Africa would offer the Cuba Economic Assistance Package to the tune of
R350 million to assist with the agricultural development process as well as the
reconstruction of win-win infrastructure devastated by natural disasters.
Through the South Africa-Cuba Health Agreement, more than 420 South African
students from disadvantaged backgrounds have qualified in the field of medicine with
over 3 000 more students currently undergoing training. South Africa currently hosts over
300 Cuban medical personnel, engineers and Science and Mathematics teachers working
in South Africa.
Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa paid an Official Visit to Cuba from 26 to 28 October
2015 during which he led a high-level government and business delegation to strengthen
bilateral, political, economic and trade relations between the South Africa and Cuba. The
Deputy President visited Cuba at the invitation of his counterpart, First Vice President
Miguel Diaz Canel Bermudez.
During the visit, Deputy President Ramaphosa paid a courtesy call on President Raul
Castro and held bilateral discussions with Vice President Miguel Diaz-Canel. He reiterated
South Africa’s support for the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the
United States of America initiated under the leadership of President Castro and President
Barack Obama. In this regard, the Deputy President also called for an end to the blockade
against Cuba and the removal of all punitive measures that had been directed against the
Cuban people.
Among others, Deputy President Ramaphosa visited and paid his respects at the Jose
Marti Monument at the Plaza de la Revolucion and the Oliver Tambo Bust at the Park for
African Heroes; interacted with the management of the Latin American School of Medicine
where a number of South African students are being trained to become doctors; met
with leaders and the broader South African student body studying medicine in Cuba; and
visited the Cuban Combined Cycle Gas Plant to study how Cubans cope with energy
challenges; the Cuban Molecular Immunology Centre, including the local Policlinic; and
the Military Historical Park Morro in Havana.
Under the auspices of the South Africa Health Agreement, almost 3 000 South African
students are currently receiving training in Cuba. In addition, the deployment of Cuban
doctors, engineers and technical experts across South African provinces is a further
demonstration of strong bilateral relations between the two countries.
The time is now ripe for South Africa to rethink
its policy towards Cuba and the whole of the
Caribbean with a view to upgrading it from
romance to deeper cooperation that will be
sustained by concrete benefits that the people and
institutions of both countries will experience.

36
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
DIPLOMACY BEYOND SOLIDARITY: THE PREDICAMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA AND CUBA RELATIONS
be sustained by concrete benefits that the
people and institutions of both countries will
experience. Political relations and solidarity
do not need anymore strengthening, but
they need harnessing for the next level.
But do we understand what this means?
Have we deployed correctly our capacities
to this end? The campaign to end the US
economic embargo and occupation of Cuba’s
Guantanamo Bay is crucial, but what happens
with the US acquiescence tomorrow?
Solidarity for fundamental reform of the United
Nations Security Council and international
financial institutions such as the International
Monetary Fund and World Bank is crucial,
but it is also meant to ensure an environment
more enabling for South-South trade and
investment. Should this be achieved now, will
we be ready to take up opportunities in the
Caribbean or will we think about this when the
victory has happened?
The current bilateral agreements governed
by a binational commission cover the
following  priority areas: health, labour,
defence, social development, housing, skills
development and infrastructure. However, it
is in the area of health where we have some
concrete cooperation of note. The people
of these two countries deserve maximum
benefit in medical pharmacopeia, exchange
of technologies, joint construction of essential
infrastructure, easy travel between the two
regions and business opportunities. How do
we achieve this when the entire relationship
is almost completely government-to-
government with very little participation of
business, including black and small business,
educational institutions, science councils and
civil society?
We need to ensure that the staffing and
posture of our diplomatic mission on the
ground are poised to signal comprehensive
and concrete relations.
The time is now ripe for South Africa to rethink
its policy towards Cuba and the whole of the
Caribbean with a view to upgrading it from
romance to deeper cooperation that will be
sustained by concrete benefits that the people and
institutions of both countries will experience.
We should expand relations from political
campaigns only to include  trade shows,
cultural exchange programmes and
connections among research and educational
institutions.
We will not be able to see much
advancement in these relations if we have not
made greater effort at promoting the greater
Caribbean region and northern Latin America
in South Africa.
Political solidarity is important, but it is only
a strategic basis on which to build concrete
economic, social and cultural cooperation.
Solidarity keeps memories alive long enough
for us to build the next basis of relations.
Cuba and South Africa can be a useful
experiment in the transitioning of South-South
collaboration from solidarity to mutually-
beneficial concrete cooperation over the
long term. The two countries can then be
the basis of doing the same with the rest of
the Caribbean, which is pregnant with huge
opportunities.
Cuba and South Africa can be a useful experiment
in the transitioning of South-South collaboration
from solidarity to mutually-beneficial concrete
cooperation over the long term
.

37
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

38
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
he recent State Visit by
President Jacob Zuma to
the Islamic Republic of Iran
took place at an opportune
time following the lifting of
sanctions against Iran.
South Africa had consistently pledged
its solidarity with Iran during the sanctions
period and supported Iran’s inalienable right
to pursue nuclear technology for peaceful
purposes. South Africa recognises that Iran is
a pivotal and influential player regionally and
SA-Iran’s relations elevated
to a strategic partnership
Iran has a large and growing economy and
possesses skills and expertise that could influence
the countries around it – and even beyond – in
a very positive manner
. Iran is one of the world’s
largest sources of energy, be this crude oil or gas.
By Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation
SA-IRAN’S RELATIONS ELEVATED TO A STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP DIPLOMACY

39
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
The MOU between the Petroleum Oil and
Gas Corporation of South Africa and the
Research Institute of Petroleum Industry will
attract inward investment into South Africa in
the petrochemical sectors with emphasis on
cooperation in the construction of a South
African refinery and supply of crude oil from
Iran.
The South African delegation reassured the
Iranian business community that our country
offered a diversified base of industrial sectors
and had a large number of competitive
industries, abundant natural resources
and well-developed transport and logistical
infrastructure. We emphasised that our
financial systems remained stable and that
we had a sound Constitutional framework to
protect property rights.
President Zuma and President Rouhani
agreed to increase non-oil trade to a billion
dollars by 2020. It is imperative that the two
countries focus on diversifying trade. This
will add much impetus towards addressing
issues of job creation, as well as skills and
technology transfer in both countries.
Apart from the focus on improving
economic and trade relations, President
Zuma’s visit also provided an opportunity to
solidify cooperation with Iran on a broader
range of issues. South Africa regards Iran
as a strategic trading partner and a strong
ally internationally and in the Non-Aligned
Movement. We share common views in
relation to the right of African states to
determine their own destiny.
President Zuma took advantage of the visit
to Iran to exchange views with his counterpart
on a wide range of issues of mutual interest,
including developments in the Middle East
and Africa. Iran’s observer status within the
African Union augurs well for our ambitions
of advancing the economic agenda on the
African continent.
South Africa welcomes the fact that Iran
has set up an Africa Task Force to increase
commerce with Africa. We encouraged
Iranian business to intensify their interaction
with Africa, which is now widely recognised
as a promising new growth pole in the world
economy.
The recent State Visit has indeed laid a solid
foundation for the elevation and consolidation
of bilateral relations between our governments
and our people into a strategic partnership,
which holds much promise for the economic
emancipation of our peoples.
DIPLOMACYSA-IRAN’S RELATIONS ELEVATED TO A STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP
internationally. Iran has a large and growing
economy and possesses skills and expertise
that could influence the countries around it –
and even beyond – in a very positive manner.
Iran is one of the world’s largest sources of
energy, be this crude oil or gas.
South Africa-Iran relations date back to
pre-1994 when Iran supported South Africa’s
liberation movement by severing relations with
the apartheid regime in 1979 and imposing a
trade boycott.
In 1994, Iran lifted all trade and economic
sanctions against South Africa and re-
established diplomatic relations on 10 May
1994.
During his visit to Iran in September 1996,
the late President Nelson Mandela noted
that, after the Iranian revolution of 1979, the
country “sacrificed much in support of our
cause” and “refused to oil the [apartheid]
system which the world regarded as a
crime against humanity”. Trade between
South Africa and Iran was interrupted by the
imposition of unilateral sanctions against Iran,
primarily by the United States of America and
the European Union, rather than the United
Nations Security Council. The sanctions
impacted negatively on our own economic
development agenda.
Iran was one of the biggest suppliers of
crude oil to South Africa prior to the sanctions.
Whereas South Africa imported about one-
third of its crude oil requirements from Iran
in 2011, it was forced to end imports by June
2012 altogether, due to the sanctions.
As a result, total trade between the two
countries stood at R358 million by 2015.
This figure does not reflect the optimal
capabilities of the two economies.
Despite the setback of sanctions, South
Africa remained committed to consolidating
bilateral relations with Iran.
With the sanctions now lifted, there is
immense potential for closer commercial
and investment cooperation between the two
countries, including the eventual resumption
of crude oil imports from Iran.
President Zuma and President Hassan
Rouhani undertook to take cooperation to a
higher level in the fields of trade, education
and skills development; science and
technology; energy, including petrochemical
gas exploration and refining capacity;
agriculture; mining and mineral beneficiation;
infrastructure development and transport;
finance, banking and insurance; and tourism.
Among the eight memoranda of
understanding (MOUs) signed during the
State Visit was the establishment of the Joint
Investment Committee, which puts in place a
measured and pragmatic form of cooperation.
These measures will enable us to significantly
increase our levels of trade.
The MOUs on Insurance Cooperation and
on Cooperation in the Field of Trade and the
accompanying Roadmap provide a good
departure point for establishing financial
and banking relations in order for our two
countries to strengthen economic and trade
cooperation.
The establishment of the South Africa-Iran
Business Council will further complement the
objectives of the Roadmap. This will translate
into tangible deliverables and add further
impetus towards expanding on the economic
ties between our respective business
communities.
With the sanctions now lifted, there is immense
potential for closer commercial and investment
cooperation between the two countries, including the
eventual resumption of crude oil imports from Iran.

40
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
By Hugo Lambrechts
Deputy Director: Humanitarian Affairs and
Itumeleng Moutloali
Legal Adviser of the International Committee of the
Red Cross (Pretoria)
The power of
humanity
DIPLOMACY THE POWER OF HUMANITY
Since its inception, the international
conference has become a unique global
and non-political forum which takes place
every four years.
DIPLOMACY
T
he 32nd International
Conference of the Red Cross
and Red Crescent took place
from 8 to 10 December 2015
in Geneva, Switzerland, under
the central theme of "Power
of Humanity: the Fundamental Principles
in Action". South Africa played a significant
role in the deliberations at the conference.
Ambassador NKM Seleka, Director of
Humanitarian Affairs at the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation
(DIRCO), chaired two plenary sessions of
the Commission on Healthcare in Danger
(HCiD): “Continuing to Protect the Delivery of
Healthcare Together”.
In his comment about the importance
of the conference, Ambassador Seleka
reinforced the relevance and applicability
of the Seven Fundamental Principles of
the Movement in modern-day situations of
conflict and emergencies, namely humanity,
impartiality, independence, voluntary service,
unity, neutrality and universality. He further
reiterated that the conference stayed true and
committed to the “power of humanity” and
“voluntary service”, which was the rallying cry
for this milestone event.
In this context, the Henry Dunant Medal
Humanitarian Awards, granted for voluntary
service to the volunteers who worked
tirelessly to contribute to the healthcare
needs of the Ebola patients and survivors,
was most humbling. Since its inception,
the international conference has become
a unique global and non-political forum
which takes place every four years. It brings
together representatives from states which
are party to the 1949 Geneva Conventions
as well as the International Red Cross and
40
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

41
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Red Crescent Movement (the Movement) to
debate important humanitarian issues and to
adopt resolutions that guide its participants in
carrying out humanitarian action.
Comprising a mix of thematic meetings,
debates and exchange of best practices, the
conference also considered contemporary
humanitarian problems such as migration, the
safety of healthcare workers during armed
conflict and the effects of climate change.
It was attended by representatives of 169
states, 185 of 190 National Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies, the International
Federation and the International Committee
of the Red Cross (ICRC), as well as 101
observers in an effort to find a common vision
for future humanitarian action.
The international conference is the
supreme deliberative body for the Movement
where states parties to the Geneva
Conventions exercise their responsibilities
under the conventions in support of the work
of the Movement and its humanitarian action
in assistance to the most vulnerable. After
much deliberations and discussions, which
included following up on the implementation of
resolutions adopted at the 31st International
Conference in 2011, 10 resolutions were
adopted by consensus. These resolutions will
serve as a continuous guide to governments
in carrying out their humanitarian obligations:
• Resolution 1: Strengthening
International Humanitarian Law (IHL),
THE POWER OF HUMANITY DIPLOMACY
protecting persons deprived of their
liberty.
• Resolution 2: Strengthening
compliance with IHL.
• Resolution 3: Sexual and gender-
based violence: Joint action on
prevention and response.
• Resolution 4: HCiD: Continuing to
protect the delivery of healthcare
together.
• Resolution 5: The safety and security
of humanitarian volunteers.
• Resolution 6: Strengthening legal
frameworks for disaster response, risk
reduction and first aid.
• Resolution 7: Strengthening the
International Red Cross and Red
Crescent Movement's response to
growing humanitarian needs.
• Resolution 8: Implementation of
the Memorandum of Understanding
and Agreement on Operational
After much deliberations and discussions, which
included following up on the implementation of
resolutions adopted at the 31st International
Conference in 2011, 10 resolutions were adopted
by consensus. These resolutions will serve as a
continuous guide to governments in carrying out
their humanitarian obligations.
Arrangements dated 28 November
2005 between the Palestine Red
Crescent Society and Magen David
Adom in Israel.
• Resolution 9: Dissolution of the
Augusta Fund and allocation
of the capital to the Florence
Nightingale Medal Fund. Revision
of the Regulations for the Florence
Nightingale Medal.
• Resolution 10: Power of Humanity.
Key messages that emerged from the
important HCiD commissions were:
• Examples mentioned during the
commission proved that the protection
of healthcare was possible when a
number of prevention and mitigation
measures were implemented by
different actors at their level.
• The protection of healthcare needs to
be tackled from different perspectives,

42
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
as violence against healthcare is a
problem with compound roots.
• Relevant actors should continue
to exchange information on their
experiences and practices at the field
level and learn from each other.
• Concerted action of different actors
at national and international level can
make the difference for the protection
of healthcare.
The commission emphasised that HCiD
should be a concern of everybody, whether
affected or not, as IHL safeguards our
humanity, and our collective commitment
to this body of law should contribute in
preserving the good of humanity.
Notably, the intervention by Dr Otmar
Kloiber, Secretary-General of World Medical
Association (WMA), reiterated similar
sentiments with his comments that “the WMA
is part of the community of concern”.
In this regard, Ambassador Seleka said
that it was vitally important that from here
the Red Cross/Crescent Societies, national
governments and regional economic
communities should individually and
collectively develop and submit pledges
that rally and mobilise people to move away
from being simply communities of concern,
to communities of action by creating a
concerted awareness campaign as the HCiD
was a matter of life and death.  Members of
the conference further submitted pledges,
which are voluntary commitments made
by governments, national societies and
observers to carry out measurable actions
and activities in support of the conference
themes, as well as the implementation of the
resolutions adopted during the conference.
By mid-February 2016, a total of 137
pledges had been deposited and conference
participants could still register pledges until
the end of March 2016.
South Africa is an active player in the
promotion and implementation of IHL.
This is evident through the ratification and
domestication of numerous IHL treaties such
as the 1949 Geneva Conventions and their
1977 Additional Protocols which became
part of South African law through the 2012
Implementation of the Geneva Conventions
Act.
In addition, DIRCO co-hosts the Annual
Regional Seminar on IHL with the ICRC.  The
regional seminar has been held for the past
15 years and is attended by representatives
from more than 15 governments in southern
Africa and the Indian Ocean Islands, who
come together to discuss the state of IHL
compliance in their countries. In light of
its commitment to IHL, the South African
Government deposited three pledges on
disaster risk reduction and management as
well as promoting compliance of IHL for the
first time.
A Regional Pledge on Strengthening IHL
was lodged by South Africa based on the
outcomes of the regional seminar, and it is
expected that all 15 participating governments
will sign onto this.
The South African Red Cross Society,
which plays a key role in public health
service provision and emergency response
in cooperation with the Government,
also submitted a pledge on engaging the
community to take steps to strengthen their
resilience and contribute towards sustainable
development.
In the next four years until the next
conference in 2019, delegations will take
measurable actions to implement resolutions
taken at the 32nd International Conference
and past conferences.
The commission emphasised that Healthcare
in Danger should be a concern of everybody,
whether affected or not, as International
Humanitarian Law safeguards our humanity,
and our collective commitment to this body of
law should contribute in preserving
the good of humanity...
DIPLOMACY THE POWER OF HUMANITYDIPLOMACY

43
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
improving
operational
efficiency
MMGM178 Transnet SOC_MDS Posters A3 x 10.indd   2 2015/09/29   8:40 PM

44
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
South Africa elected to
UNESCO Executive Board
South Africa’s election to the Executive Board
gives the country an opportunity to contribute to
international peace and security by promoting the
interests of the African continent as outlined in
Africa Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development
.
T
he United Nations
Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organisation
(UNESCO) is known as the
“intellectual” agency of the
UN.
At a time when the world is looking for
new ways to build peace and sustainable
development, people must rely on the power
By Thivhilaeli Makatu,
Counsellor Multilateral, South African Embassy, Paris
SOUTH AFRICA ELECTED TO UNESCO EXECUTIVE BOARDDIPLOMACY

45
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
member states, which meets every two
years; the 58-member Executive Board,
which ensures the overall management
of UNESCO; and the Secretariat, which is
responsible for the day-to-day running of
the organisation.
In November 2015, South Africa was
elected to serve on the Executive Board
of UNESCO for the period 2015 to 2019.
South Africa, represented by Ambassador
Rapu Molekane, also serves as the
Vice-Chair for the Africa Group on the
Executive Board. The Executive Board
meets between general conferences.
South Africa’s election to the Executive
Board gives the country an opportunity
to contribute to international peace and
security by promoting the interests of the
African continent as outlined in Africa
Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development.
The South African National Commission,
which is made up of representatives
from various government departments
responsible for the areas of competence of
UNESCO as well as representatives from
civil society, acts in an advisory capacity to
the South African delegation to the General
Conference and the Executive Board
meetings. The South African National
Commission Secretariat is located within
the Department of Basic Education in
Pretoria, from where it coordinates the
activities of all departments through a
network of national focal points, including
the Department of International Relations
and Cooperation (DIRCO).
The South African Embassy in Paris,
headed by Ambassador Molekane and as
an arm of DIRCO, serves as the de facto
Permanent Delegation to UNESCO.
South Africa previously served on the
Executive Board from 1997 to 2001 and
2005 to 2009.  It currently also serves in the
following subsidiary bodies of UNESCO:
Council of the International Bureau of
Education, International Coordinating
Council of the Programme on Man and the
Biosphere, Intergovernmental Council of the
“Management of Social Transformations”
Programme and the Intergovernmental
Committee for Physical Education
and Sport.
At a time when the world is looking for new ways
to build peace and sustainable development,
people must rely on the power of intelligence to
innovate and expand their horizons and sustain
the hope of a new humanism.
SOUTH AFRICA ELECTED TO UNESCO EXECUTIVE BOARD DIPLOMACY
of intelligence to innovate and expand their
horizons and sustain the hope of a new
humanism. UNESCO exists to bring this
creative intelligence to life, for it is in the
minds of men and women that the defences
of peace and the conditions for sustainable
development must be built.
UNESCO strives to build networks among
nations that enable this kind of solidarity, by:
• mobilising for education: so that
every child, boy or girl, has access to
quality education as a fundamental
human right and as a prerequisite for
human development
• building intercultural understanding
through the protection of heritage
and support for cultural diversity.
UNESCO created the idea of
world heritage to protect sites of
outstanding universal value
• pursuing scientific cooperation
such as early warning systems for
tsunamis or transboundary water
management agreements, to
strengthen ties between nations and
societies
• protecting freedom of expression: an
essential condition for democracy,
development and human dignity.
UNESCO has three governing structures,
namely the General Conference of its 192

46
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
S
outh Africa was represented
by a multistakeholder high-
level delegation at the
World Economic Forum’s
Davos meeting from 20 to
23 January 2016. Coming
within the context of projected lowered global
economic growth and falling oil and commodity
prices, this gathering of international opinion-
makers and thought leaders presented an
opportunity to look at global responses and
By Kingsley Makhubela
CEO of Brand South Africa
Team South Africa stands
tall in Davos
Our most important message in Davos to
international business and investors would have to
be that, South Africa was open for business in this
environment and that they could be assured of our
commitment to policy certainty and consistency
.

47
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
DIPLOMACYTEAM SOUTH AFRICA
STANDS TALL IN DAVOS
best practice to a range of pressing social,
developmental and economic issues.
South Africa is not insulated from this
global economic environment and although
we have the most diversified economy in
Africa, with a strong macro-economic policy
and fiscal environment, the falling commodity
prices, among others, present a challenge to
our economic growth forecasts.
Our most important message in Davos to
international business and investors would
have to be that, South Africa was open for
business in this environment and that they
could be assured of our commitment to policy
certainty and consistency.
Among others, we communicated that:
• our strong macro-economic framework
has shielded the economy from the full
brunt of a challenging global economic
environment and volatility in global
capital markets
• government, through its fiscal
consolidation measures, is committed
to continued fiscal prudence and
preservation of investment grade credit
ratings
• private partnerships in energy through
renewable programmes are fast
contributing to power availability over
and above the large energy infrastructure
built
• mature banking institutions and world-
class capital markets make for easy
access to capital.
The adoption of a socio-economic impact
assessment system by Cabinet in September
2015, seeks to avoid policy contradictions
and preserve a business-friendly environment.
Efforts at the National Economic Development
and Labour Council to foster a stable labour
environment are yielding results.
The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation
and Arbitration has been given responsibility
through the Labour Act amendment to mediate
in resolving strikes.
Comprehensive business incentive
packages across sectors offer support to
business.
South Africa provides a platform to leverage
on the fastest-growing region in the world.
With a strong team consisting of
ministers from the Economic Cluster, senior
representatives of South African state-owned
entities and many representatives of business,
Team South Africa took these messages with
confidence to the snow-covered town of Davos
in Switzerland. This was communicated in all
our interactions during the four-day long forum.
What we experienced was that investors
and leaders of global business continued to
be positive about South Africa in particular and
Africa as a whole, contrary to the sentiment we
have seen expressed domestically about all
affairs economic.
Investors and global business leaders also
appreciated South Africa’s frankness and
openness in explaining some of the challenges
were are dealing with in terms of our economic
growth.
Despite these challenges, South Africa
continues to attract foreign direct investment
with the ICICI Bank of India announcing it
would set up an office in South Africa. This
affirms our position that we are a preferred
investment destination even in these global
conditions.
We also took the opportunity to reiterate
to delegates at Davos that the National
Development Plan and the nine-point plan for
economic recovery, underscored by Operation
Phakisa, remains our programme of action.
This communicated an awareness on our part
that we could not continue with business as
usual. The challenging and uncertain global
economic conditions necessitate an innovative
approach to ensuring that we remain globally
competitive in the face of turbulence.
A message can only go that far to build
confidence. We must now pull together in our
various sectors to ensure we implement these
programmes.
In a highly uncertain economic climate,
we have as Team South Africa once again
demonstrated that uniquely South African
quality of being able to stand together in the face
of adversity because apart from our sectoral
interests, our country is most important. This
is the spirit that will see us transcend almost
unprecedented global uncertainty.

48
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Science at the forefront
of SA’s vision
By Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa
Science is at the centre of all
human progress. It is critical to our
development as a nation and as a
continent
.
T
he fossil record tells us
that humans originated in
Africa. It was here, over the
course of several millennia,
that humans evolved the
capabilities that enabled
them to venture beyond the shores of our
continent, to colonise new lands and build
new civilisations.
SCIENCE AT THE FOREFRONT OF SA’S VISIONDIPLOMACYDIPLOMACY

49
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
It was here that our capacity for innovation
developed.
It was here that we began to understand
and master our physical environment. It was
in Africa that humans discovered what we
now know as science.
Science is at the centre of all human
progress. It is critical to our development as a
nation and as a continent.
In 1994, we inherited an economy with
deep structural deficiencies. Government
had to put in place interventions to ensure
economic stability and inclusive growth. We
have focused on transforming the economy,
pursuing policies to grow strategic sectors
and create employment opportunities.
Investment in research and development
(R&D) has been an important part of South
Africa’s economic development strategy over
the last two decades. Technological innovation
is crucial for economic diversification and
sustainability. As we have encouraged
investment in R&D, we have worked to
reconfigure and reorientate our research
institutions and to promote cooperation
between higher education institutions, state
agencies and business.
Progress towards a knowledge-based
economy will be driven by a variety of
elements. These include human capital
development, knowledge generation and
exploitation, and knowledge infrastructure
development. It requires that we address
the gap between research results and socio-
economic outcomes.
Significant progress has been made during
the past two decades, but more still remains
to be done.
South Africa’s economy is still faced with
profound challenges that require a coherent
and concerted response from all social
partners.
The Department of Science and
Technology is leading government’s efforts to
make South Africa a preferred destination for
foreign investment in science, technology and
innovation.
The work being done to encourage
international companies to locate their R&D
facilities in South Africa is seeing results.
General Electric, for example, is investing
R500 million in a customer innovation centre
in Gauteng. We welcome its decision to
invest a further R200 million to support South
African small, medium and micro enterprises
(SMMEs) through technology transfer.
IBM has announce that it would invest
R700 million over 10 years into information
and communications technology (ICT) R&D.
Cisco has announced a three-year
partnership worth R66 million to increase the
company’s R&D activities in South Africa.
Government will continue to work hard to
promote relationships with global partners
and to leverage foreign investment in science
and technology in South Africa.
We will continue to support training
opportunities for South African researchers
abroad and enable cooperation agreements
that allow South Africa to share its international
experience and expertise.
Science and technology is critical for
our continent’s economic growth and
development.
For centuries, Africa has provided the
raw materials that have fuelled the greatest
industrial and technological advances in
human history.
However, we have not had the opportunity
to fully enjoy the economic and social benefit
Government will continue to work hard to
promote relationships with global partners and
to leverage foreign investment in science and
technology in South Africa
.

50
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
that arises from the exploitation of our
resources. That needs to change. That is
why the approval by African heads of state
of the science, technology and innovation
strategy is such a positive development.
It has the potential to establish Africa as a
supplier not merely of raw materials, but also
of the technology and knowledge required to
transform those materials into a better life for
all its people. South Africa is committed to
playing its part.
In 2011, the country published its
beneficiation strategy, which proposes five
value chains for analysis. These are in the
areas of coal and nuclear, iron and steel,
titanium pigment and metal, platinum group
metals and precious metals.
One of the outcomes of that strategy was
the construction of a titanium pilot plant at the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
(CSIR).
While South Africa is the second-largest
producer of titanium-bearing mineral
concentrates in the world, little value is added
to the mineral before it is exported.
Government has invested some
R100 million over two years to help develop
and commercialise a process to produce
primary titanium metal powder.
 By developing technologies to manufacture
titanium products, the country can become a
significant contributor to the global aerospace
market.
The South African Government adopted
the National Infrastructure Plan in 2012 to
transform the country’s economic landscape,
while simultaneously creating significant
numbers of new jobs and strengthening the
delivery of basic services.
It is investing more than R800 billion over
three years in building new and upgrading
existing infrastructure.
The roll-out of the infrastructure
development plan will play a crucial role in
unlocking economic opportunities, promote
mineral extraction and beneficiation, address
socio-economic needs and lead to inclusive
economic growth.
A strong manufacturing sector is crucial for
industrialisation.
We will continue to support South Africa's
manufacturing sector to enable the country's
companies to develop new capabilities and
products that will broaden the country's
exports.
The CSIR has the capacity and expertise to
contribute to the growth of our manufacturing
sector. The organisation has demonstrated
this capability by supporting SMMEs in the
production of biotechnology-based products.
The CSIR has used laser technology to
improve the competitiveness of South Africa's
manufacturing industry. It has supported
programmes to improve the energy efficiency
of large companies.
The National Development Plan (NDP)
outlines South Africa’s long-term vision for a
more competitive, inclusive and diversified
economy. Science, technology and innovation
must be at the forefront of realising this vision.
The NDP says that science and technology
must be used to address some of the
problems in education, health and economic
development, and to facilitate access to
information and knowledge.
Already that is happening.
The departments of health and science
and technology, for example, are working with
the CSIR to design ICT architecture for the
National Health Insurance.
There have also been important
successes in areas like HIV prevention and
treatment, satellite-building, paleontology,
fluorochemicals and technology for improved
service delivery.
Progress in developing and supporting
renewable energy solutions is particularly
encouraging. Government will increase
its support for the work done by the CSIR
and other parties in identifying strategic
geographical areas that are suitable for wind
and solar projects.
Government has invested in infrastructure
for hydrogen research at the CSIR, and is
keenly following progress in finding a way
to more easily store hydrogen for use as
a clean energy alternative. We commend
the partnership between the United Nations
Industrial Development Organisation,
Department of Trade and Industry and the
CSIR for the successful implementation of the
National Cleaner Production Centre of South
Africa.
Over the past five years, the centre has
assisted more than 80 industry plants to save
sufficient energy to electrify over 120 000
South African homes for a year.
Government’s vision for 2030 is that
South Africa becomes a dynamic and
connected information society that has a
vibrant knowledge economy that is inclusive
and prosperous. Hundreds of thousands of
years ago, Africa was at the centre of human
innovation. It can become so again.
i
In 2015, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) celebrated 70 years of
existence.
The CSIR performs multidisciplinary research and technological innovation with the aim
of contributing to industrial development and the quality of life of people of South Africa –
and increasingly on the wider continent.
Constituted by an Act of Parliament in 1945, the CSIR is one of the leading science and
technology research, development and implementation organisations in Africa. The CSIR’s
main site is in Pretoria, while it is represented in other provinces of South Africa through
regional offices.
The CSIR transfers the knowledge generated through research activities by means of
technology and skilled people. The generation and application of knowledge reside at the
core of the CSIR. This takes place in domains such as biosciences; the built environment;
defence, peace, safety and security; materials science and manufacturing; and natural
resources and the environment.
Emerging research areas include nanotechnology, synthetic biology and mobile
autonomous intelligent systems.
The CSIR houses specialist facilities of strategic importance for African science. These
include information and communications technologies; laser technology; and space-related
technology.
Research and development activities include intellectual property management,
technology transfer (for commercial gain as well as for social good), knowledge dissemination
and impact assessment.
The CSIR has a group of facilities that manages standard technology-based services. The
experts in this group utilise the value of CSIR knowledge-application activities by providing
specialised consulting, analysis and testing services to address the needs of clients.
Services include forensic fire investigations, food and beverage analysis, environmental
testing, engineering forensics, wire rope testing, mechanical testing, fires and explosion
tests, sports technology and analysis, and project management.
South Africa’s national imperatives and global challenges provide the macrostrategic
framework within which the CSIR conducts its research. In an effort to contribute to placing
the African continent on a path of sustainable growth and development, the organisation
supports and actively participates in the New Partnership for Africa’s Development.
www.csir.co.za/
SCIENCE AT THE FOREFRONT OF SA’S VISIONDIPLOMACYDIPLOMACY

51
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FINANCIAL INCLUSION IS VITAL DIPLOMACYSCIENCE AT THE FOREFRONT OF SA’S VISION DIPLOMACY

52
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
South African
expertise and skills
help to save Petra
By John Davies
Ambassader to Amman, Jordan
Their impressive work has been praised by all
concerned with the project: the Jordan Department
of Antiquities, the Petra Development and Tourism
Regional Authority, UNESCO as well as the Italian
Government.
DIPLOMACY SOUTH AFRICAN EXPERTISE AND SKILLS HELP TO SAVE PETRADIPLOMACY

53
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SOUTH AFRICAN EXPERTISE AND SKILLS HELP TO SAVE PETRA DIPLOMACY

54
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
P
etra, the “rose red city half
as old as time”, is the most
famous sight in Jordan and
is visited by thousands of
tourists each year. It was
voted as one of the seven
wonders of the world in a recent global
exercise.
The site contains a number of instantly-
recognisable monuments, the most famous
being the Treasury (or el Khazneh  in Arabic),
followed by the Monastery (el Deir), reached
after a strenuous uphill climb. In fact, neither
is a treasury or a monastery, and most
of the monuments at the Petra site are,
comparatively speaking, not that old, dating
to classical Greek and Roman times (second
century BC to fourth century AD). The
approach to the Treasury, along the narrow
Siq (canyon), is nevertheless one of the most
dramatic sights in the world.
The Israelites passed by this way during
the Exodus, although there is no sign of their
presence, mainly because the Nabataeans,
an Arab tribe that built most of what we now
see at Petra, were only active from the second
century BC onwards. The area surrounding
Petra, however, has remains dating back
to the earliest human settlements. Budeira,
a few hundred metres from “Little Petra”, a
neighbouring  village, is a Neolithic site dating
back to the times when humans first started
living in settlements and cultivating crops,
10 000 years ago.
When Petra was rediscovered by the Swiss
explorer Johann Ludwig Burckhart in 1812,
the site was largely abandoned and almost
inaccessible. Unfortunately for Petra, the
beautiful “rose-red” local sandstone rocks
are very soft and erode easily. Many of the
monuments and tombs in Petra show signs
of serious erosion and those that are in the
path of the wind, which whips up sandstorms
at certain times of the year, have often been
almost worn away altogether. Floods during
the rainy season (not very long in Jordan,
the second-most “water challenged” country
in the world) also cause havoc and retaining
dam walls which now protect the Siq.
This means that the Siq itself, the main
access channel to the city of Petra, is
potentially dangerous in that rainstorms
and wind gradually expose faults in the
overhanging rocks and eventually cause them
to collapse into the valley below. As this poses
a serious threat to all the tourists moving
through the Siq, the authorities, together with
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), decided
some years ago to commission a study of the
Siq’s stability and identify areas that needed
attention. This process included identifying
3-D laser mapping process, greatly assisting
preservation and planning for the future.
The Zamani  Research Group, based at the
University of Cape Town (UCT) and headed
by Professor Heinz Ruther, was established
to map and document, through 3-D
modelling, all of Africa’s great monuments.
Zamani is part of UCT’s Geomatics Division
specific rocks or groups of rocks that are close
to collapsing and falling as well as introducing
delicate measuring instruments, linked by
satellite to a control centre that constantly
monitors fissures in the rocks to detect when
they start to widen and thereby threaten to fall.
As part of the process, the main monuments
and tombs themselves were subjected to a

55
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
(www.zamaniproject.org). Zamani has carried
out projects in many African countries, and
is currently doing a survey of the famous
pyramids of Meroe in Sudan.
Funding for such projects is sometimes
erratic and Zamani found that it had spare
capacity just at the time that the Italian
Government agreed to fund the Petra Siq
Stability Project. The group therefore tendered
for the project (which was also overseen by
UNESCO) and was successful.
Their impressive work has been praised
by all concerned with the project: the
Jordan Department of Antiquities, the
Petra Development and Tourism Regional
Authority, UNESCO as well as the Italian
Government. If further funding becomes
available, Zamani would undoubtedly
be well-placed to continue its mapping
work in Jordan, thereby creating greater
awareness of South Africa’s skills
and competence in this area and
serving as a wonderful advertisement for the
country.

56
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE LIBERATION HERITAGE: BEYERS NAUDÉ
LIBERATION HERITAGE
Beyers Naudé
S
peaking at the Special
Official Funeral of
Dr Beyers Naudé
in Johannesburg on
18 September 2004, the
then President of South
Africa, Thabo Mbeki, said that he “ … was
a great son of the people of our country
whose very being was infused with a deep
sense of compassion. A humble person who
would never be able to conceive of himself
as other than an ordinary person; he felt in
closest communion with the ordinary people
of our country, the wretched of the Earth”.
Oom Bey, as he was affectionately
known, was born in Roodepoort, in the then
Transvaal, on 10 May 1915 and was named
after Boer General Christiaan Frederik
Beyers. One of eight children, he was born
into a family who was fully committed to the
preservation of Afrikaner nationalism. His
father was a minister of the Dutch Reformed
Church (DRC) and was a founding member
of the Afrikaner Broederbond, a secret society
aimed at promoting Afrikaner nationalism.
Naudé followed in his father’s footsteps
by studying Theology at the University of
Stellenbosch. He received his degree in
1939 and completed a Master’s degree in
languages. He also joined the Broederbond
as its youngest member when he was only 25.
In 1940, he was appointed assistant-
minister at the DRC in Wellington, Cape
Town. In August the same year, he married
Ilse Weder, the daughter of a Moravian
missionary.
For the next 20 years, Naudé ministered
to various congregations across the country.
He followed the political philosophy of the
National Party, but the Sharpeville Massacre
in 1960 brought about a huge change of heart.
After completing his last sermon in which he
placed “the authority of God before the authority of
man”, he removed his robes and left his church
.
Naudé and his family were completely ostracised
by their fellow Afrikaners
.

57
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
He had already begun to question the morality
of apartheid after witnessing the destruction
of black family life under the South African
migrant labour system.
In 1961, Naudé became acting moderator
of the Southern Transvaal DRC Synod
despite his outspoken opposition to apartheid.
In April of the same year, he was appointed
moderator. He was the founder member
of the Christian Institute, a non-racial
ecumenical organisation that challenged the
established traditional church while providing
humanitarian relief. Naudé was also the editor
of the Christian Institute’s publication, Pro
Veritate.
Naude was serving as minister, or dominee,
in the Aasvoëlkop congregation during this
time and experienced intense inner conflict
regarding the church’s support of apartheid
with his own Christian principles. In 1963, he
resigned from the Broederbond after 22 years
of membership.
His real turning point came on a
Sunday morning in September 1963.
Already considered a traitor for quitting the
Broederbond, he braved complete rejection
by the Afrikaner community by condemning
apartheid from the pulpit. After completing his
last sermon in which he placed “the authority
of God before the authority of man”, he
removed his robes and left his church.
Naudé and his family were completely
ostracised by their fellow Afrikaners. He
was embraced by the black community and
joined a Dutch Reformed congregation led by
Reverend Sam Guti in Alexandra.
Naudé was forced to resign as minister.
He continued in his position as Director of
the Christian Institute, but in May 1965, the
Security Police raided the organisation’s
premises.
Naudé was opposed to violence as a means
of change and in 1972 he travelled to Europe
where he delivered a sermon at Westminister
Abbey, London. He became the first Afrikaans
theologian to be honoured in this way. He
continued on to West Germany for talks with
church leaders there. In September 1972,
he was awarded an honorary doctorate in
Theology by Amsterdam's Free University
for “exceptional merit for the development of
theological science”.
The year 1974 saw Naudé receiving an
honorary doctorate of Law from the University
of Witwatersrand. He was also honoured with
the Reinhold Niebuhr Award for “steadfast
and self-sacrificing services in South Africa
for justice and peace”. His passport, which
had been confiscated, was returned so that
he could travel and receive the award at
a ceremony in Chicago, United States of
America. On his return it was confiscated
again. In October 1977, Naudé and his
Christian Institute were banned. Despite
the continual persecution he established
a ministry to council pastors. He was not
allowed to leave his house, or speak to more
than one person at a time. He continued to
speak to other anti-apartheid activists like
Archbishop Desmond Tutu on a one-to-one
basis.
After seven years, Naudé’s banning
order was lifted in September 1984. He
immediately threw himself back into the
struggle against apartheid. He succeeded
Archbishop Tutu as the secretary-general
of the South African Council of Churches in
1985. In 1987, he formed part of the Afrikaner
group that met with African National Congress
FEATURE
LIBERATION HERITAGE: BEYERS NAUDÉ
Madiba, paying tribute to his old friend, said Naudé
had “stood up against apartheid at a time when
it was an unpopular thing for white people to do,
and he did so at the expense of his family and his
freedom”.
representatives in Senegal. The demise of
apartheid and the move to democracy turned
Naude from pariah to hero. President Nelson
Mandela called him a “living spring of hope for
racial reconciliation”.
In June 1999, despite failing health, he
opened the inauguration ceremony for
President Mbeki.
Naudé passed away at the Elim retirement
village in Northcliff, Johannesburg, on
7 September 2004. He was 89. His wife, Ilse,
aged 92, was by his side.
Madiba, paying tribute to his old friend, said
Naudé had “stood up against apartheid at a
time when it was an unpopular thing for white
people to do, and he did so at the expense of
his family and his freedom”.
www.southafrica.info / www.sahistory.org.za
Beyers Naude with Oliver Tambo

58
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

59
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

60
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE RHINO ANTI-POACHING INTERVENTIONS SHOWING RESULTS
Rhino anti-poaching
interventions showing
results
By Albi Modise
Chief Director: Communication/
Head of Communication
Department of Environmental Affairs
60 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

61
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURERHINO ANTI-POACHING INTERVENTIONS SHOWING RESULTS
S
outh Africa is starting to
turn the corner in the fight
against rhino poaching.
In the past year, the number
of rhino poached for their
horn decreased as the
number of arrests for poaching increased
dramatically. This could be ascribed to the
joint effort of government departments,
state-owned entities and non-governmental
organisations (NGOs) to ensure that rhino are
protected for future generations.
The increased cooperation is evident
not only from the fact that the Minister of
Environmental Affairs, Edna Molewa, was
joined by the ministers of justice and state
security at recent media updates on the rhino
poaching situation, but is also borne out of
the increased success of the cooperation
between entities such as SANParks and the
Limpopo National Park in Mozambique.
In August 2012, Cabinet approved the
Integrated Strategic Management (ISM) of
Rhinoceros in South Africa.  This approach
comprises compulsory interventions,
interventions to increase rhino numbers, long-
term sustainability interventions, international
and regional cooperation and game-changing
interventions.
On 1 November 2015, the war against
rhino poaching and wildlife crime received a
much-needed boost when President Jacob
Zuma visited the Kruger National Park (KNP),
witnessing first-hand the extent of rhino
poaching in South Africa, and the steps being
taken by the Government to address the
matter.
During his visit, the President assisted
in taking DNA samples from a rhino cow
captured to become a foster parent to rhino
calves orphaned by poaching. The President
paid tribute to the efforts of rangers at the
Ranger Memorial at the Kruger Gate and
officially opened the Mission Area Joint
Operations Centre (MAJOC) at Skukuza. This
centre – one of the key milestones of the ISM
approach – has been established in the park
by the South African Police Service (SAPS) to
coordinate operations against rhino poaching
by all affected government institutions. These
are the departments of environmental affairs
and defence, the SAPS, SANParks and the
provincial conservation agencies. Rhino
poaching was declared a national security
threat in 2011. Since, then the Government
has increased its efforts in curbing a crime
that affects not only the survival of a key
member of the Big Five, but also jobs in
the tourism, wildlife and related sectors, as
well the country’s economy and cultural and
natural heritage.
By approving the ISM approach,
government has prioritised the need for a
strengthened tactic, particularly information
coordination and the strengthening of
partnerships with neighbouring countries,
law-enforcement authorities and communities
surrounding protected areas.
This approach has delivered a number of
satisfying results since its implementation
18 months ago.
For the first time in a decade, the poaching
situation has stabilised. This is cause for
hopefulness, particularly in light of the fact
that poaching activity into protected areas has
increased considerably during 2015.
In addition, the much-feared year-end
spike in poaching was prevented at the end
of 2015 when a concerted Ranger and Task
Force effort ensured that the country lost
half the number of rhinos in December 2015
compared to 2014.
Another achievement by the end of
2015, was that all crime scenes had been
attended to – this despite a serious backlog
earlier in the year. This is largely due to the
admirable efforts of the SAPS/KNP forensic
and investigation teams, as well as significant
training in crime-scene management offered
to investigators during the year.
The National Prosecuting Authority
announced in January 2016 that it had
convicted 48 rhino poachers since August
2015 on charges ranging from possession of
rhino horn, dealing in rhino horn and the illegal
The well-equipped and trained reaction forces
with good land and air mobility, as well as a
significant night capability, now have the benefit
of early warning, detection and tracking systems
to enhance proactive operations. More and more
allies are joining this costly campaign to ensure
sustainability and continuous improvement.
hunting of rhino to conspiracy, trespassing
and the illegal possession of firearms and
ammunition.
Over the past three years, the concerted
efforts of the rangers and other forces resulted
in 509 poachers arrested inside the park
and 304 weapons seized. If the successes
adjacent to the park are taken into account,
since they are launched from the MAJOC
at Skukuza, a total of 795 poachers were
arrested and 43I weapons seized.
2015’s successes also included a decrease
in the number of rhino poached for their
horn in South Africa to 1 175 from the record
number of 1 215 in 2014. Last year, 826 rhino
were killed in the KNP – a clear indication that
the situation has been stabilised as a result of
our hard-fought campaign.
The ISM approach saw the introduction of
the Intensive Protection Zone concept in the
KNP. It remains an important pillar for the
protection of the high-density rhino population
in the south of the KNP, and is being expanded
to other protected areas in the country.
The well-equipped and trained reaction
forces with good land and air mobility, as
well as a significant night capability, now
have the benefit of early warning, detection
and tracking systems to enhance proactive
operations. More and more allies are joining
this costly campaign to ensure sustainability
and continuous improvement.
Another step has been the implementation
of the Rhino Information System, which serves
as a single online environment where rhino-
related information – be it news in the media
or information from NGOs or government –
can be collated and standardised.
The Green Scorpions and the National
Border Management Coordinating Committee
have been training officials at ports of entry
61Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

62
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
and exit on all aspects of the Illicit International
Cross-Border Movement of Endangered
Species. Since August 2015, 1 047 border-
enforcement officials have received training.
In terms of interdepartmental collaboration
between the Department of Environmental
Affairs (DEA) and its partners in the Security
Cluster, around 400 magistrates and
prosecutors received intensive training last
year.
The DEA is in the process of collating
inputs from the public following the gazetting
in January 2016 of the Draft Amendment of
the norms and standards for the marking
of rhinoceros and rhinoceros horn, and the
hunting of rhinoceros for trophy hunting
purposes, of 2012.
Collectively, the amendments strengthen
enforcement efforts to ensure that the
translocation of live rhino, the management of
rhino horn and the hunting of these animals
are done within the ambits of the law – without
contributing to an increase in rhino poaching.
Another policy development was the
publication of the Biodiversity Management
Plan for White Rhino in December 2015. This
plan enables the evaluation of conservation
progress and management, and sets out
key actions and strategies needed to ensure
that monitoring protection conservation and
sustainable management of the species will
contribute to meeting conservation goals
– as well as the long-term vision for the
conservation of white rhino.
Since last year, SANParks’ biological
management interventions focused on
moving rhino from high poaching risk areas
to safer zones within the KNP, evaluating and
initiating several rhino strongholds and saving
rhino orphans left abandoned when their
mothers were poached.
A total of 124 rhino were moved out of the
KNP last year.
A recent survey has shown that more
than a quarter of the world’s white rhino
population (5 000) is in the hands of private
and communal landowners in South Africa.
Unfortunately, more than 60 properties
disinvested completely of white rhino during
the survey period, resulting in a loss of
approximately 11% of habitat that held white
rhino. Security costs were reported to have
doubled since 2010 with a national private
white rhino security costs of approximately
R40 million annually.
But, it is communities living either adjacent
to protected areas, or those who have land
claims on protected areas pending, that
are key to all partnerships aimed at halting
poaching.
In December 2015, the Biodiversity
Economy Strategy was launched to promote
guardianship of wildlife within all communities.
The Government aims to ensure that in
the next 14 years, R7 billion in wildlife equity
is transferred to previously disadvantaged
communities and entrepreneurs.
This will largely be facilitated through the
department’s Environmental Protection and
Infrastructure Programme as well as through
mobilising game donations from provincial
conservation authorities and SANParks.
A prime example of community ownership
of prime species was the donation in
November 2015 of four dehorned rhino to a
community trust at a ceremony in KwaZulu-
Natal. The donation was facilitated by
the national DEA and the KwaZulu-Natal
Department of Economic Development,
Tourism and Environmental Affairs. The rhino
were donated by Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife.
On the international front, South Africa
continues to work with regional and
international enforcement networks such
as the World Customs Organisation, the
Convention on the International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) Secretariat, World Bank,
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
and Interpol – all of which make up the
International Consortium on Combating
Wildlife Crime.  The country is therefore able
to strengthen priority actions at a national
level, as well as harness the support of
international partners for those priorities that
involve transnational syndicates.
South Africa also continues to play a
key role on the Advisory Board of Interpol’s
Environmental Compliance and Enforcement
Committee.
In addition, South Africa is collaborating
with rhino range and consumer states to
support efforts to neutralise the threat of
organised transnational criminal syndicates
involved in the illegal wildlife trade.
As part of the Memorandum of
Understanding signed with Vietnam in 2013,
South Africa played host to the Vietnamese
Youth Wilderness Trails Programme in 2015.
This is a demand reduction campaign that
will capacitate young rhino ambassadors
throughout schools in Vietnam, and will run
until 2017.
Cooperation with Mozambique has
been further cemented not only during the
discussions held between President Zuma
and President Filipe Nyusi of Mozambique in
October 2015, but also through a number of
projects undertaken.
Among these have included:
• the presentation to Mozambique’s
Environmental Police with a donation
of equipment to the value of
R2,6 million to strengthen
The Government aims to ensure that in the next
14 years, R7 billion in wildlife equity is transferred
to previously disadvantaged communities and
entrepreneurs
.
FEATURE RHINO ANTI-POACHING INTERVENTIONS SHOWING RESULTS
62 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

63
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Mozambique’s environmental law-
enforcement efforts, and support the
rangers in Limpopo National Park
• guard and field ranger training in
association with the Southern African
Wildlife College
• the resettlement of villages as part
of the community resettlement
programme at Limpopo National Park
is still underway and it is anticipated
that the programme should be
completed by the end of 2017.
In December 2015, at the Sixth Summit of
the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation
(FOCAC), held in Johannesburg, wildlife
conservation and combating the illegal
trade of wildlife were included in the FOCAC
Action Plan. The Ministerial Meeting and
Heads of State Summit of FOCAC saw the
two countries agree to transform the wildlife
trade dynamics from Africa to China, with a
view to significantly reducing illegal trade
and supporting the sustainable utilisation of
Africa’s wild plants and animals, including
regulated legal trade in wildlife.
The world’s eyes are turning to South
Africa as the country prepares to host the
17th Conference of Parties to CITES (CITES
CoP17) in Johannesburg from 24 September
to 5 October 2016.
The country is widely expected to table
a proposal to CITES to legalise the trade in
rhino horn. However, no such decision had
been made by the time of going to press.
The Committee of Inquiry set up to
investigate the feasibility, or not, of a possible
trade in rhino horn was set to present its
findings and recommendations following a
year of investigation to the Cabinet during
March 2016 for a decision.
Only then will the South African
Government take a formal stance regarding
the sale of stockpiled rhino horn.
On World Wildlife Day, 3 March 2016,
Minister Edna Molewa signed the Host
Country Agreement for CITES CoP17 with
the Secretary-General of CITES, John
Scanlon, on the margins of an international
conference on wildlife crime in The Hague,
the Netherlands.
Scanlon described South Africa as a highly
appropriate location given the frontline wildlife
challenges and opportunities being tackled
on the continent.
“Africa is home to a vast array of CITES-
listed species and South Africa is globally
recognised for ‘the Big Five’.
"CITES parties and observers look forward
to convening in South Africa for the World
Wildlife Conference,” said Scanlon.
At COP17, parties will collectively evaluate
the progress made since 2013, and take
decisions on what additional measures are
needed to end illicit wildlife trafficking. It
will also consider a number of proposals to
The world’s eyes are turning to South
Africa as the country prepares to host
the 17th Conference of Parties to CITES
(CITES CoP17) in Johannesburg from 24
September to 5 October 2016.
bring additional species under CITES trade
controls, as well as tackle issues concerning
livelihoods and the review of significant
trade, traceability and the effectiveness of
CITES implementation, among other things.
The illicit trade in wildlife and rhino poaching
will also feature on the agenda.
The signing coincided with the release of
the official COP17 logo – an iconic image of
the African white rhinoceros.
The rhino’s “body” comprises the outlines
of a number of species of endangered plants
and animals from the African continent, such
as the pangolin, cycad, African aloe and
African lion.
The selection of the rhino as the dominant
image of the COP17 logo reinforces South
Africa’s status as home to the largest rhino
populations in the world.
South Africa’s sterling rhino conservation
track record has resulted in significant
growth in rhino numbers: from approximately
50 in 1895 to approximately 18 000 today.
“The choice of a rhino as the dominant
image in the logo for COP17 is also to draw
attention to the challenges South Africa and
other African range states face as a result of
poaching,” says Minister Molewa.
“The COP17 logo reminds all of us of the
interconnectivity between different species,
and of the fragile, complex relationships
between humankind and our stewardship of
our natural resources.
South Africa looks forward to hosting
this important gathering, where we will
chart the course for a new era in species
conservation,” says Minister Molewa.
FEATURERHINO ANTI-POACHING INTERVENTIONS SHOWING RESULTS
63Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

64
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE A BEACON ON THE GLOBAL LANDSCAPE OF HUMAN MEMORY
A beacon on the global
landscape of human
memory
“Liliesleaf was an old house that needed work and no one lived there. I moved
in under the pretext that I was a houseboy or caretaker that would live there
until my master took possession. I had taken the alias David Motsamayi, the
name of one of my former clients. At the farm, I wore the simple blue overalls
that were the uniform of the black male servant.” – Nelson Mandela, Long Walk to Freedom.
By Nicholas Wolpe
CEO Liliesleaf

65
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
L
iliesleaf today is a
national heritage site
that commemorates a strategic
and seminal point in South
Africa’s liberation struggle
history and is a beacon on the
global landscape of human memory.
More than just a national heritage site, it
symbolises and articulates what underpinned
and defined the liberation struggle. It is a site
of memory that keeps the history of the
liberation struggle alive and real.
Visitors to the historical site interact with
dynamic, immersive interactive audio and
audiovisual exhibits that take them on an
inspiring journey of discovery where intriguing
and fascinating liberation struggle testimonies
and stories come to life that helped shape
and define South Africa’s new democratic
dispensation.
As time moves on, it is easy to forget
where we have come from and what we as
a people and nation have been through. With
each generation, the gap gets wider and
the importance of our past has the potential
to fade from the historical landscape and
narrative. As a consequence, Liliesleaf today
takes on more significance and meaning as
it aims to ensure, through the testimonies
and stories which are told through interactive
dynamic exhibits, that the events and actions
that influenced and shaped South Africa’s
liberation struggle are not lost or forgotten.
Liliesleaf was purchased in August 1961
through a front company of the South African
Communist Party (SACP), Navian (Pty)
Ltd. The funds to purchase the property
purportedly came from Moscow via Zurich
into the trust account of the law firm of
James Kantor & Partners, which did the legal
transaction on behalf of Navain (Pty) Ltd.
The small holding was purchased from the
Fyffe family who were from Scotland and had
named the farm after a Scottish village of the
same name. It was a 28-acres farm situated in
the then secluded peri-urban area of Rivonia.
At the time of the purchase, Nelson
Mandela was underground. In his statement
from the dock, which he delivered in April
1964 during the Rivonia Trial, he said: “In
October, Arthur Goldreich informed me that
he was moving out of town and offered me
a hiding place there. A few days thereafter,
he arranged for Michael Harmel to take me
to Rivonia. I naturally found Rivonia an ideal
place for the man who lived the life of an
outlaw. Up to that time, I had been compelled
to live indoors during the daytime and could
only venture out under cover of darkness.
But at Liliesleaf [farm, Rivonia], I could live
differently and work far more efficiently."
In early December 1961, Arthur Goldreich,
a member of the SACP, with his wife Hazel
and their two small children, Nicholas and
Paul, moved onto the small holding. The
Goldreichs projected an acceptable white
middle-class family facade while the thatched
cottage and outbuildings concealed covert
underground liberation activities.
The purchase of Liliesleaf coincided
with the decisive decision to shift to armed
struggle and as Ahmed Kathrada aptly
remarked, through a process of osmosis
Liliesleaf became the High Command of the
newly formed military wing of the African
National Congress (ANC), with its first
Commander-in-Chief being Nelson Mandela.
Liliesleaf became the nerve centre of the
underground liberation movement and it
was from there that the military overthrow
of the apartheid regime was planned and
discussed ... and where structures like The
Secretariat and the High Command planned
and strategised a path that played a seminal
role in changing the course of South African
history. Key debates took place on political
and military policy and strategy as well as
on military action. This included the drafting
of Operation Mayibuye. The plan motivated
a shift from sabotage to guerrilla warfare and
the toppling of the government by military
action, with external assistance.
It was with apprehension and reluctance
that the leadership convened for one last
meeting at Liliesleaf on the afternoon
of Thursday, 11 July 1963, to conclude
discussions on Operation Mayibuye and
address some operational matters and the
recently passed 90-day Detention Act.
AnnMarie Wolpe, wife of Harold Wolpe, who
also had been briefly arrested in the aftermath
of the Liliesleaf raid, recalled the period in her
autobiography, The Long Way Home. She
quotes her husband, saying, “The tragedy is
that this was scheduled to be the last meeting
there. We’d been worried for some time, and
everything was due to be moved away from
the house."
Walter Sisulu, Govan Mbeki, Ahmed
Kathrada, Lionel “Rusty” Bernstein, Raymond
Mhlaba and Bob Hepple were meeting in the
thatched cottage to continue the debate on
Operation Mayibuye, while in the lounge of the
Manor House was Denis Goldberg, reading a
banned book, Brighter than a Thousand Suns,
a personal history of the atomic scientists by
Robert Jungk.
The six men heard dogs barking and
a vehicle making its way down the long
driveway. Govan Mbeki looked out of the
window. He did not recognise the vehicle – a
white dry cleaning van with the words “Trade
Steam Presses” printed on it. Bernstein then
looked up and exclaimed with surprise that he
had seen the very same van parked outside
the Rivonia police station while on route to the
farm.
Pandemonium broke out in the thatched
cottage. Mbeki had a copy of Operation
Mayibuye on his lap. He tried to get rid of it
in the coal stove. It was unlit, so he pushed
it up the chimney. No one had matches; the
Liliesleaf became the nerve centre of the
underground liberation movement and it was from
there that the military overthrow of the apartheid
regime was planned and discussed ...
FEATUREA BEACON ON THE GLOBAL LANDSCAPE OF HUMAN MEMORY

66
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
incriminating document could not be burned.
Kathrada and Sisulu climb out the back
window of the cottage and were making a
break into the dense Highveld scrub behind
the cottage.
The police were apparently acting on a tip-
off that Walter Sisulu was hiding out on the
farm but what they stumbled on inadvertently
was a meeting of members of the top
leadership of the liberation movement. They
hit the jackpot.
From that moment, the word “Rivonia”
became synonymous around the world
with the crushing of the internal liberation
movement and resistance to apartheid.
At the time of the raid, Mandela was serving
a five-year sentence on Robben Island.
The day after the raid, however, the police
uncovered a cache of documents in the coal
shed behind the main house kitchen door.
The police allegedly clapped their hands
with joy as they recognised the handwriting
as belonging to Mandela.
His writings, diaries and journals were
concealed in the coal shed, which linked him
to Liliesleaf and enabled the apartheid State
to bring him as accused No 1 to the Rivonia
Trial. There was evidence of Mandela’s
relationship and link to Liliesleaf, and all the
intimate details of his travels abroad to build
up support for the ANC and Imkhonto we
Sizwe (MK).
The police had their case: a 62-page
notebook entitled, Part One: How to Be a
Good Communist, his diary of his trip abroad
in 1962 and a false Ethiopian passport in the
name of David Motsamayi, which Mandela
had gone under while operating from Liliesleaf
and used during his secret African mission.
The police also found a handwritten version
of an MK disciplinary code, which had been
written by Harold Wolpe, a notebook on
the Theory of Demolition, written by Arthur
Goldreich and other incriminating liberation
material.
The raid on Liliesleaf resulted in the
Rivonia Trial, where eight of the 10 accused:
Nelson Mandela, Govan Mbeki, Walter
Sisulu, Raymond Mhlaba, Ahmed Kathrada,
Denis Goldberg, Andrew Mhlangeni and
Elias Motsoaledi were sentenced to life
imprisonment.
The trial came not only to encapsulate the
determination, conviction and ideals of what
the struggle meant but also gave the accused
a platform to voice what the ideals of the
struggle where about. The Rivonia trialists
came to represent the embodiment and soul
of the struggle “that no government can justly
claim authority unless it is based on the will of
all the people”.
This was nowhere more clearly articulated,
expressed and extolled than by Nelson
Mandela’s closing remarks in his “I am
prepared to die” statement, where he said:
“During my lifetime, I have dedicated myself
to this struggle of the African people. I have
fought against white domination, and I have
fought against black domination. I have
cherished the ideal of a democratic and free
society in which all persons live together in
harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an
ideal which I hope to live for and to achieve.
But if needs be, it is an ideal for which I am
prepared to die.”
Fortunately for South Africa, the apartheid
State’s imprisonment of the Rivonia trialists
failed to quell, quash or crush the morality,
spirit and ideals of the liberal struggle. Though
the Rivonia trialists were incarnated and not
seen for over two decades, their indelible spirit
and belief remained ever present. Then on
11 February 1990, the symbol of the struggle
walked free and with it the aspirations and
hopes of a nation.
FEATURE A BEACON ON THE GLOBAL LANDSCAPE OF HUMAN MEMORY
Fortunately for South Africa, the apartheid State’s
imprisonment of the Rivonia trialists failed to quell,
quash or crush the morality, spirit and ideals of the
liberal struggle
.

67
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

68
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
By Manusha Pillai
General Manager: Communications
Brand South Africa
T
he message from the
continent to the world, since
the early 2000s has been:
partnership for development
and mutual benefit. This was a
fundamental paradigm shift for
a continent which was traditionally supported
by aid rather than trade. The African Union,
with its related institutions, aims at inculcating
an ethos of good governance and responsible
leadership on the continent to give expression
to this message and provide assurance to
international partners.  This, in addition to the
recent adoption of Agenda 2063 – Africa’s
first long-term programme for socio-economic
development – has been key to overhauling
the African brand image and saying to the
world that Africa is open for business.
FEATURE
AFRICA: THE NEW FRONTIER FOR INVESTMENT
Africa: the new
frontier for
investment
Africa’s ability to
attract a significant
share of global foreign
direct investment
therefore bodes well
for the continent’s
developmental
agenda and suggests
that Africa is doing
something right to
convince investors
that their investments
are safe.
68 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

69
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATUREAFRICA: THE NEW FRONTIER FOR INVESTMENT
Recent analysis of foreign direct investment
(FDI) into Africa tells us these endevours are
bearing fruit – the continent is increasingly
becoming a viable investment destination,
which can be correlated with a more positive
continental reputation and image.
According to the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD): “FDI
is an integral part of an open and effective
international economic system and a major
catalyst to development”. Africa’s ability
to attract a significant share of global FDI
therefore bodes well for the continent’s
developmental agenda and suggests that
Africa is doing something right to convince
investors that their investments are safe.
According to the recently released Africa
Investment Report 2015 , compiled by
fDiIntelligence: “FDI into Africa [in 2014]
increased by 64% to US$87 billion [which
represents] 660 projects”.
This amounts to 13% of global FDI which
has increased from 0,6% in 2000. The
464 multinational companies which have
invested in the continent are saying without
equivocation that Africa is open for business
and that it is a safe and reliable investment
destination.
The most attractive sectors for investors
are: financial services with 133 projects; the
coal, oil and natural gas sector with 25 projects
and a combined capital investment value
of US$33 billion; the real estate sector with
23 projects and a capital investment of
US$12 billion; and the industrial machinery
sector with 33 projects.
The auto components sector reflected an
improved performance of 133% while the
value of projects in the industrial machinery as
well as software and information technology
services sectors increased by 378% and 72%,
respectively; FDI projects in the chemicals
sector amounted to US$7 billion, indicating
an increase of almost 2000% from 2013; and
the alternative and renewable energy sector
saw US$10 billion being invested across the
continent.
The benefits of FDI for developing countries
are well documented. According to the OECD,
and other studies: “FDI triggers technology
spillovers, assists human capital formation,
contributes to international trade integration,
helps create a more competitive business
environment and enhances enterprise
development.  All of these contribute to higher
economic growth, which is the most potent
tool for alleviating poverty in developing
countries”.
The areas where we are seeing the most
investment also impact on improving the
quality of life for citizens.
Africa’s ability to attract increasing amounts
of the global share of FDI is, however,
only part of the continent’s success story.
Increased FDI must equate to economic
growth and development of human capital.
This requires strong leadership from both the
public and corporate sectors.
Human capital is, according to the OECD
“paramount to a country’s ability both to
attract FDI and maximise spillovers from
foreign enterprise presence”.
Africa must capitalise on the competitive
advantages of multinational enterprises
resident on the continent – which are an
important source of research, development
and technology – to develop continental
technological competencies and the human
capital to maintain such competencies.
The development of Africa’s human capital
is a key pillar of Agenda 2063.
Increased FDI, if used efficiently, can
provide governments with a catalyst to
both develop and supply human capital for
domestic and international business.
While FDI can also be a catalyst for the
integration of markets to facilitate more
efficient and effective trade relations, Africa
cannot rely on foreign investment alone
and must drive its own integration. To this
end, a firm foundation was laid when in
June 2015, the Continental Free Trade Area
(CFTA) negotiations were concluded. When
fully implemented, the CFTA will build an
integrated market with over one billion people
and returns of approximately US$2,6 trillion.
Intra-regional trade is already contributing to
Africa’s growth and the African Development
Bank finds that “after decades of relative
stagnation, the value of formal intra-African
trade has increased almost fivefold in absolute
terms between 2001 and 2012”.
In addition, “intra-African greenfield FDI
projects as a percentage of greenfield inflows
into Africa almost tripled between 2003 to
2013, from 7% in 2003 to over 21% in 2013”.
The successful African growth story is
therefore being driven both internally and
externally.  Various studies indicate a positive
correlation between investment and future
economic growth. The data suggests that
there is every reason for citizens of the
continent to be optimistic about prospects for
growth and development for their countries
and themselves.
The science and theory on brand
development tell us that brand equity is built
and strengthened by what brands do and not
just what they say.
The continent has made significant
progress in transforming its image and
reputation, which is supported by increased
investment – from external markets as well as
within the continent.
Africa has certainly become a globally
competitive investment destination. The
OECD cautions that although there are real
economic benefits of FDI, “they do not accrue
automatically”.
Maximum benefits will ensue from a
healthy enabling environment for business,
“which encourages domestic and foreign
investment, provides incentives for innovation
and improvements of skills and contributes to
a competitive corporate climate”.
Will history find the leaders of the continent
able to seize the opportunities presented by
the Africa Rising narrative to ensure that the
African brand is built on what is done rather
than what is said?  Only time will tell …
Increased foreign direct investment, if used
efficiently, can provide governments with a
catalyst to both develop and supply human
capital for domestic and international business.
The data suggests that there is every reason for
citizens of the continent to be optimistic about
prospects for growth and development for their
countries and themselves
.
69Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

70
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Opening up the
African skies
The liberalisation of the African skies, without
compromising national security needs, could
generate 155 000 new jobs and inject another
US $1,3 billion into the continent’s 12 leading
economies
.
By Derek Hanekom
Minister of Tourism
FEATURE OPENING UP THE AFRICAN SKIES

71
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATUREOPENING UP THE AFRICAN SKIES

72
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
he aviation industry is an
essential catalyst for global
tourism and trade. Due to its
speed, efficiency and capacity
to transcend geographical
barriers, air transportation has
become an indispensable part of integration
and the global economy.
Africa’s economy is projected to grow
significantly in the near future, and new
prospects for the aviation industry will
emerge. Improved air linkages will facilitate
further development, making it essential that
we all support the agenda for accelerated
growth. We will not pursue this growth at the
exclusion of our partners from other parts
of the world, but with a view to sustaining
effective relationships and partnerships with
global partners for inclusive and equitable
growth in the aviation industry.
In 2014, the world’s airlines ferried about
3,2 billion passengers to their destinations,
which is a 6,5% increase from the previous
year. The African airline industry grew by 7%.
The high growth rate is largely attributable
to systematic and long-term investment in
airport infrastructure and the adoption of open
skies policy.
While growth in African aviation might
offer us some hope, the hard truth is that our
continent still lags far behind our international
counterparts in the aviation stakes.
The Aviation Africa Summit in 2015 noted
that the failure by the continent to implement
the Yamoussoukro Declaration had been
detrimental for the continent. The declaration
calls for the liberalisation of African skies for
African airlines. It aims to establish a single
African air transport market by avoiding
market restrictions imposed by bilateral air
service agreements.
The African Business Aviation Association’s
2015 report points out that Africa has to
improve on training and skills development,
safety and security, infrastructure, airspace
and airport access to match our international
competitors and to take advantage of future
growth prospects. We must also reduce our
taxes and fees.
As a continent on the rise, Africa can use
its status as a newcomer in the aviation
industry to accelerate its own development
by not repeating the mistakes of those who
started before us. We can build on the best
practices of winning destinations as we
build our aviation capacity. And there are
many success stories to emulate. The rapid
growth and development of the aviation
industry is a strategic prerequisite to attain
competitiveness.
South Africa’s aerospace sector is now
contributing an estimated 2,1% to gross
domestic product and around 4,3% to
employment opportunities, which include
direct aviation and tourism business
operations.
The African aviation market remains largely
unexploited. Like all our sister countries on the
continent, we in South Africa are determined
to rid the continent of poverty, disease and
civil war through our active participation
in the African Union and other multilateral
structures. With our diversified industrial
base, modern infrastructure and sophisticated
financial markets, we are regarded as a key
gateway into Africa.
The impact of the aviation industry on
sectors like tourism and cargo freight makes
the development of aviation facilities a key
success factor for economic development
on the continent. Africa’s diverse economic
sectors stand to benefit immensely from the
integrated world market. The commitment
by many African countries to construct and
upgrade airports demonstrates the continent’s
recognition of the role that a healthy aviation
sector plays in its competitiveness and growth
prospects. The truth is that six of the world’s
10-fastest growing economies are now
located in Africa, making the continent the
next frontier of global economic development.
With 25% of the world’s arable land and a
predominantly youthful population, Africa can
become a global food basket that is capable
of feeding its own inhabitants and exporting
a variety of agricultural products to the world.
Impediments to the growth of Africa’s
aviation industry include poor intra-African
connectivity, weak policy and legislation
governing the aviation sector, the high cost of
doing business and poor infrastructure.
Limited intra-African connectivity is reflected
in the schedules of our national airlines, which
tend to fly frequently to destinations outside
the continent, especially to Europe, with far
fewer flights to other African destinations. In
an article published by the Fin24 business
magazine, the Director-General and CEO of
the International Air Transport Association,
Tony Tyler, listed intra-Africa connectivity as a
significant factor undermining our continent’s
aviation industry. He said: “It is strange that
African countries seem more willing to give
flight permission to airlines from outside
the continent than to those from within the
continent. About 80% of the air traffic to Africa
is on non-African airlines.”
He attributed this state of affairs to
restrictive air traffic regimes in Africa. While
this is changing, the pace of the change
does not match the desire and readiness
for trade and investment among African
countries themselves. Poor connectivity is
costly. People travelling from Johannesburg
to Rabat in Morocco, to use but one example,
may have to fly via Paris instead of enjoying a
direct flight within the continent.
Travelling between Kenya and London is
more convenient than flying from Nairobi to
Maputo in Mozambique.
On a brighter note, Africa is gradually
addressing some of these challenges.
Resolutions taken during the meeting of the
African Airlines Association in Kenya in 2013
included calls for unrestricted intra-Africa
The impact of the aviation industry on sectors like
tourism and cargo freight makes the development
of aviation facilities a key success factor for
economic development on the continent. Africa’s
diverse economic sectors stand to benefit
immensely from the integrated world market.
FEATURE OPENING UP THE AFRICAN SKIES

73
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
aviation infrastructure and services, ensuring
that we have a stable airport system, regulating
aircraft emissions around airport and applying a
balanced approach towards managing aircraft
noise.
The National Airlift Strategy, along with our
aviation legislation, indicates our commitment to
growing this sector.
The South African aviation sector is stable; we
must now become globally competitive.
South Africa has participated actively in the
International Civil Aviation Negotiation Forum
and has supported initiatives to expand air
services that benefit our economy and spatial
development initiatives. South Africa is committed
to funding developmental projects that benefit the
entire continent. Our country is regarded as the
springboard to establish strong aviation hubs for
sustainable trade and tourism routes that could
be marketed to potential investors in the world
market.
South African Airways continues to secure
landing rights on the continent and the rest of the
world, and its fleet includes new aircraft that are
competitive in the global market.
Sustainable growth has to be supported by
skilled personnel, stringent safety measures and
quality assurance through constant maintenance
of aircraft. Skills development remains among our
greatest and most immediate challenges and is
crucial to the growth of the aviation industry.
market access and regulatory alignment
among African states. The gathering
recommended the creation of even playing
fields to promote fair competition. The
commitment to establish aviation hubs and
the entry of affordable airlines, can transform
the African airline business by enabling direct
flights between destinations on the continent.
The Yamoussoukro Declaration calls for
greater collaboration and the promotion
of internal market liberalisation and fair
competition. This is a crucial developmental
strategy to address industry concerns around
safety, environmental protection and security.
The liberalisation of the African skies,
without compromising national security
needs, could generate 155 000 new jobs
and inject another US$1,3 billion into the
continent’s 12 leading economies.
We have already recognised that
poor aviation facilities have impeded the
continent’s development. But, investment
in infrastructure, especially in modernising
airports to handle the new generation of
aircraft such as the Airbus 380 and the Boeing
747-8, and cooperation with regional trade
blocs like the European Union, is improving
the performance of African airlines. This
includes the installation of modern satellite
services essential for safe and efficient
aviation.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup brought a major
facelift and upgrade of South Africa’s airport
infrastructure. This included the construction
of King Shaka International Airport in Durban.
South Africa continues to place infrastructure
development at the top its developmental
agenda, with further improvement in airports
as a priority.
The safety and security of passengers and
aircraft is, of course, absolutely crucial, and
requires special attention to ensure that it is
not an obstacle to the growth of air transport
on the African continent. Focus on safety is
now taking centre stage in the African aviation
industry.
Africa is implementing the 2012 Abuja
Declaration to promote air safety standards
that match the world’s minimum safety
standards. Through the South African Civil
Aviation Authority, we continue to implement
sound and effective safety standards in
South Africa. Other factors that contribute to
the challenges faced by the African aviation
industry include a lack of resources to
replace old aircraft, the low pace of acquiring
new technologies and poor maintenance of
existing fleets.
South Africa’s Airlift Strategy makes a
stable and sustainable aviation sector a
priority. We have identified a number of
interventions, including ensuring world-class
FEATURE
OPENING UP THE AFRICAN SKIES
OR Tambo International Airport

74
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE SHAPING CONVERSATION IN AFRICA
Shaping
conversation
in Africa
By Jeff Radebe
Minister in The Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
S
outh Africa’s National
Development Plan (NDP)
and Vision 2030 are
an embodiment of our
collective development
goals and aspirations as
a society in relation to the elimination of the
triple challenges of poverty, unemployment
and inequality. The NDP builds on the
foundation that has been laid over the past
in our quest to create a new society free of
apartheid colonialism and its related negative
political, social and economic impacts. It is
common knowledge that under apartheid
rule a culture of secrecy, disinformation and
restrictions on press freedom were a norm, as
journalists were subjected to harassment and
some newspapers closed down.
I recall an occasion in 1991 during which
the newly unbanned liberation movement,
the African National Congress, convened a
meeting of approximately 300 delegates to
discuss the drafting of a media policy, which
led to the adoption of the Media Charter, and
which remains the policy of that organisation
as the ruling party of the Government of South
Africa.
74
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

75
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURESHAPING CONVERSATION IN AFRICA
The charter broadened the debate and
addressed issues such as basic human
rights and media freedom, democratisation
of the media, the relationship between those
working in media and society, media education
and training and proactive measures to
promote diversity in the society that we
were envisaging then. Policy documents
and subsequent multiparty negotiations laid
a basis for the current Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa that was adopted in
1996, whose Section 16 guarantees:
• freedom of press and other media
• freedom to receive and impart
information or ideas.
Furthermore, in Section 32 of the Bill of Rights,
South Africa’s Constitution guarantees access
to “any information held by the State; and any
information that is held by another person and
that is required for the exercise or protection
of any rights”.
The Promotion of Access to Information
Act, 2000 has been used effectively by
journalists and other persons to defend this
right over the years. By guaranteeing access
to information, we believe that we open doors
for the implementation of other rights that
are guaranteed in the Bill of Rights, including
other similar international obligations that we
subscribe to.
Through South Africa’s legal framework,
we value human rights, transparency,
accountability, equality, justice, good
governance and democracy.
Recently, President Jacob Zuma delivered
the Percy Qoboza Memorial Lecture during
which he declared that: “Never again will
our nation witness the harassment of the
free media such as occurred on Wednesday,
19 October 1977, when the apartheid regime
clamped down on the media, banning two
newspapers, The World and The Weekend
World, and arresting the editor and other
brave journalists who stood up to the regime".
This reminder and clarion call by the
President seeks to ensure that as a new
democracy, we cherish these freedoms and
ideals, and we also ensure that they inform
our outlook in terms of engaging with other
nations across the world on matters of
democracy and development.
With freedom comes obligations.
Since 1994, as the democratic Government,
we have seen the media as a partner and a
powerful independent agent for social change.
It is the inherent role of the media to inform,
educate and entertain everyone, not just the
selected minority.
This helps empower people to form their
own views and opinions, and become active
citizens who are able to use the information
to engage meaningfully on matters of
development that affect them on a daily basis.
Most importantly, the media helps build active
citizenry that is able to hold powerful actors in
society to account, including the private and
public-sector leadership and organisations.
In South Africa, we have made significant
progress in terms of media transformation,
which is part of the broader developmental
agenda to eradicate the legacy of apartheid.
There is still much to be done since, for
instance, print media ownership patterns
remain largely untransformed and alternative
voices – more especially of the poor and most
disadvantaged – still remain largely unheard
in the media environment.
We champion community media to help fill
this gap at grassroots level.
The NDP invites all of us to build a capable
and developmental state that is underpinned
by active citizenry – and I strongly believe
that media can play a pivotal role in terms of
achieving this development agenda.
The African context
South Africa does not exist in a vacuum. We
are part and parcel of the African continent.
Hence, we have committed our country to
contribute towards the creation of a better
South Africa, and a better and safer Africa in
a better world.
From a media perspective, the South
African Government supports or is signatory
to a number of international instruments,
protocols and charters such as: the African
Charter on People and Human Rights,
Windhoek Declaration, Johannesburg
Principles, the Southern African Development
Community Protocol, the African Charter
on Broadcasting, the Access to Airwaves
Principles, the Dakar Declaration and the
Declaration on the Principles of Freedom of
Expression in Africa, among others.
These instruments create an enabling
environment for all of us to build strong media
that contributes to social, cultural, political and
economic development and emancipation.
Let us take advantage of this splendid
opportunity to make a difference in our
lifetime.
Human development indicators are
beginning to show significant shifts in relation
to the trajectory of African development, as
the latest African Development Indicators
report recognises the positive impact of the
policies that have been adopted by various
African governments as well as better
informed citizens.
The report notes the following positive
trends, among other things:
• the continent has experienced rapid
economic growth at an average rate
of 5% over the past decade, against
global challenges
• more than 80% of Africans have
access to mobile phones; a trend that
With freedom comes obligations.
 Since 1994, as the democratic Government, we have
seen the media as a partner and a powerful independent
agent for social change. It is the inherent role of the media
to inform, educate and entertain everyone, not just the
selected minority.

76
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
is now characterised as an information
technology revolution
• for the first time in history, poverty
has been declining with the absolute
number of people living under
$1,25 per day falling by nine million.
This is a good story to tell about our beloved
continent. Our collective tasks as leaders,
including media leaders, are to ensure that
these positive trends are sustained and the
fruits of this development are experienced by
all our people.
The remaining challenges of conflict,
malnutrition, pandemics, illiteracy,
unemployment, environmental hazards and
gross inequalities should be eradicated where
they still persist.
In January 2015, the heads of state and
governments of the African Union (AU)
assembled in Addis Ababa during the 24th
Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the AU
– where they adopted Agenda 2063. Agenda
2063 is a long-term vision and a commitment
of Africans themselves to achieve the
following aspirations:
• a prosperous Africa based on inclusive
growth and sustainable development
• an integrated continent, politically
united and based on the ideals of Pan-
The media holds the
key since its core
business is about
information
and knowledge
dissemination.
 It should play its
watchdog role without
fear, favour nor prejudice.
Africanism and the vision of Africa’s
Renaissance
• an Africa of good governance,
democracy, respect for human rights,
justice and the rule of law
• a peaceful and secure Africa
• an Africa with strong cultural identity,
common heritage, values and ethics
• an Africa where development is
people-driven, unleashing the
potential of its women and youth
• Africa as a strong, united and
influential global player and partner.
Agenda 2063 is aligned to the emerging
global consensus regarding the shift from the
millennium development goals to sustainable
development goals.
The media will be instrumental in ensuring
that as Africans we are well-informed of the
steps that we are required to implement to
achieve these developmental aspirations and
goals. They should provide platforms for the
battle of ideas in this regard.
All sectors of societies within the
African countries should strive to make the
50-year vision of the “Africa We Want” a reality
by implementing practical programmes,
strategies and social compacts that will take
us gradually towards its attainment in 2063.
We can achieve this if we work together as
various stakeholders in society. The media
holds the key since its core business is about
information and knowledge dissemination.
It should play its watchdog role without fear,
favour nor prejudice.  The media should defend
the development progress made thus far and
challenge governments, civil society and the
private sector to always act in a manner that
puts people first and contributes meaningfully
towards socio-economic development. This
should be done in a manner that is genuinely
participatory, rights-based and respectful of
the diversity of views and voices.
Media should be the voice of the voiceless.
The struggle for emancipation of the poor in
Africa and globally from the chains of poverty
and underdevelopment is a long-term journey
that we should all embark on with more vigour,
solidarity and determination. We dare not let
down our people at a time when they expect
more from us in terms of information and
provision of better education, health, skills,
employment, housing, water, governance,
social protection and the eradication of
poverty.
We should produce information and
develop measures that will make all peoples
of Africa to face socio-economic risks
and environmental hazards with greater
preparedness and resilience – better informed
by our various media platforms which play a
key role in terms of early-warning and proper
response mechanisms.
The new information and communications
technology revolution in Africa brings about
new opportunities for media to reach the
previously marginalised groups and present
innovative solutions in terms of empowering
citizens of the African continent to determine
their own development and livelihoods. We
echo the voices of our current African leaders
when they call us into action through Agenda
2063: The Africa We Want – with a vision of an
integrated, peaceful and prosperous Africa,
driven by its own citizens and representing a
dynamic force in the global arena.
FEATURE SHAPING CONVERSATION IN AFRICA
 The media should defend the development
progress made thus far and challenge
governments, civil society and the private sector to
always act in a manner that puts people first and
contributes meaningfully towards socio-economic
development
. This should be done in a manner
that is genuinely participatory, rights-based and
respectful of the diversity of views and voices
.

77
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATUREPRIDE AND TREPIDATION: RESPECTING AND PROTECTING INDIGENOUS KNOWLEDGE FEATURESHAPING CONVERSATION IN AFRICA
THE SOUTH AFRICAN WINE INDUSTRY
South Africa is a leader in production
integrity, embracing strict guidelines for
sustainable farming, and the responsibility
of protecting our environment
and conserving our unique biodiversity.
More than 95 percent of our wine is
produced in the area known as the Cape
Floral Kingdom (CFK). One of six such
plant kingdoms in the world, it is the
smallest, yet richest, home to over 10 000
plant species, more than in the entire
northern hemisphere. The CFK is one of
34 recognised biodiversity hotspots, with
70 percent of the plants found here not
found anywhere else on earth.
Our South African wine industry is very
proud of its focus on environmental
sustainability and pioneering moves to
conserve and protect the extraordinary
biodiversity that makes us capable of
producing such a vast array of great
wines that reflect their very specific and
distinctive origins.
Producers farm according to
independently audited Integrated
Production of Wine (IPW) scheme
guidelines to prevent further loss of
habitat. These guidelines cover health
and safety, minimising the use of sprays,
monitoring water usage and recycling
the maximum water possible, as well
as protecting the natural habitat. Many
wine farms have embraced the initiative
imaginatively, developing hiking trails and
nature reserves as part of their visitor
experience and the result is that there are
now nearly 144 000 hectares set aside for
conservation – significantly more than the
total area under vine (99 463 ha).
In 2010, South Africa launched the
world’s first industry-wide sustainability
seal, which guarantees a certified wine’s
environmental credentials according
to measurable, auditable criteria (from
minimising chemical usage and cleaning
up waste water to introducing the natural
predators of vineyard pests). It also
makes it possible for consumers to verify
information simply by entering each seal’s
unique number on the Sustainable Wine
South Africa (SWSA) website at www.
swsa.co.za. Already some 95 percent of
wines certified in accordance with the
IPW system are meeting the requirements
to carry the sustainability seal.
Currently, there are 39 WWF Conservation
Champions acknowledged by WWF as
real industry leaders. The repositioned
WWF partnership with industry continues
to use the familiar sugarbird and protea
label, with the new name of Conservation
Champion replacing the term Biodiversity
& Wine Initiative (BWI) Champion, to
recognise and reward industry best practice.
Many South African wine farms are going
back to basics by using biological forms
of pest control, such as ducks in the
vineyards for snail control and predatory
wasps to control mealybugs. Some are
building perches for birds of prey, which
control rodents, and others are even
attracting bats to control moths. At the
other end of the scale is using cutting-
edge technology, such as satellites to
capture data, aerial photographic images
and moisture-testing probes in the
soil to provide a detailed overview of
the vineyards. Using this technological
information, the viticultural team can
then determine the best and most
environmentally friendly route to follow.
Water-wise systems, from specially
constructed wetlands to floating islands
in dams, form a key part of the solution
to the management of cellar effluent by
many wineries.
Along with Australia, New Zealand
and California, South Africa has also
developed the International Wine
Industry Greenhouse Gas Accounting
Protocol and calculator, a system that
measures carbon dioxide emissions
that occur throughout the growing,
production, packaging and transportation
of wine. Many producers have reduced
their carbon emissions through the use
of a locally developed lightweight (350g)
bottle or other recyclable alternatives
to glass; by exploring solar and wind
power options; and/or by collaborating
with domestic and international logistics
companies to make greater use of
railroads, for example, thus reducing their
dependence on road transport.
www.wosa.co.za
PROUD LEADERS IN
PRODUCTION INTEGRITY
Wosa Ads.indd   3 2016/04/13   6:51 PM

78
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE SA INNOVATIONS CHANGING THE WORLD
SA innovations
changing
the world
South Africans have exceptional
talents, innovations and ideas
and have made their mark in the
international arena
.
I
t is a well-known fact that the world’s
first heart transplant was performed in
Cape Town by Dr Chris Barnard Town on
3 December 1967. Barnard went on to
become an international celebrity and
performed more than 10 other heart
transplants.
However, that is but one example of South
African innovations, which have literally
changed the world – be it in a big or small
way.
World’s first digital laser
In 2013, the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research (CSIR) announced the
development of the world’s first digital laser.
CSIR researcher Sandile Ngcobo, who
conducted the breakthrough experimental
work as part of his PhD studies, believed
the significance of the research was to
demonstrate the ability within the CSIR to
lead innovation in this field.
“I believe the digital laser will be a
‘disruptive’ technology.
“This is technology which may change
the status quo and which could create new
markets and value networks within the next
few years or decade.
"The research into the digital laser
continues. It adds to the CSIR’s strong track
record in the development of laser technology
in mathematical optics,” said Ngcobo.
"This groundbreaking development is
further evidence of the great potential we
have in scientific innovation.
"That the world’s first digital laser should
come from our country is testimony to the
calibre of scientists that South Africa has,”
said the former Minister of Science and
Technology, Derek Hanekom.
CAT Scan
The Computed Axial Tomography Scan or CAT
Scan was developed by Cape Town physicist
Allan Cormack and his associate Godfrey
Hounsfield. He provided the mathematical
technique for the CAT Scan, in which an X-ray
source and electronic detectors are rotated
around the body and the resulting data is
analysed by a computer to produce a sharp
map of the tissues within a cross-section of
the body. Cormack and Hounsfield won the
1979 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine
for their work on X-ray computed topography.
Cormack was born in Johannesburg and
attended Rondebosch Boys’ High School in
Cape Town.
Full-body X-ray scanner
In 2013, South African X-ray system
manufacturer Lodox Systems made its mark
on the international medical scene with a low-
radiation dose X-ray system that takes a full-
body scan in just 13 seconds. Lodox is also
safer, emitting up to 10 times less harmful
dose than regular X-ray systems.
It even got the attention of the makers of
popular American television drama Grey’s
Anatomy. The Xmplar-dr X-ray system
featured in the 18th episode of season nine
of the TV drama series for its functions in
medical trauma and forensic pathology.
“Although Grey’s Anatomy is just a TV
show, the featuring of Lodox’s unique scanner
shows that our technology is of the highest
standard and continues the proud tradition of
world-class South African medical innovation
that was started by such pioneering icons as
Alan Cormack and Christiaan Barnard.”
Lodox’s critical imaging technology was
first developed for use in South Africa’s
diamond mines to prevent smuggling in the
1980s and 1990s.
Kreepy Krauly
The swimming pool vacuum cleaner was
invented by Ferdinand Chauvier, a hydraulics
engineer who came to South Africa from the
Belgian Congo in 1951.
Chauvier quickly realised that there was
a huge market for taking the hassle out of
cleaning swimming pools and went about
inventing a machine that would do the job
automatically, efficiently powered by the
ordinary operation of the pool’s filter.
But it wasn’t until 1974 that the first Kreepy
Krauly was born in Chauvier’s Springs home.
He died in 1985, but Kreepy Kraulys
continue to keep thousands of pools clean in
South Africa and the world over.
Pratley Putty
George Pratley was a renowned South African
inventor who developed significant products
for use in industry and became known for his
innovative adhesive products. These include
Pratley Putty, which was used on Apollo 11’s
Eagle landing craft in 1969, which carried Neil
Armstrong to the moon. Initially called Pratley
Plastic Putty, it was developed in the early
78
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

79
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURESA INNOVATIONS CHANGING THE WORLD
in the comfort of their labs to keep tabs on
tagged animals.
Speed Gun
Invented in 1992 for a sports-crazy nation
by innovator and engineer Henri Johnson,
the speed gun was unveiled in 1999 at the
Cricket World Cup. Commonly called the EDH
Speed Ball, it is used to measure the speed
and angle of fast-flying balls, especially those
thrown from the bowler’s hand in cricket, or
served in tennis matches.
Cheaper solar power
An innovation in solar power which uses
a micro-thin metallic film was created by
Professor Vivian Alberts at the University
of Johannesburg. The discovery has made
solar electricity five times less expensive than
solar photovoltaic cells. Alberts’ solar panels
consist of a layer of a unique metal alloy, five
microns thick. The photo-responsive alloy can
operate on most flexible surfaces.
In February 2014, a semi-commercial plant
for the production of thin-film solar module
technology was opened in Stellenbosch.
3D underwater imaging system
The world’s first low element-count 3D
underwater imaging system was developed
at the CSIR. The researchers also built
a technology demonstrator that was
successfully tested at the underwater test
facility at the Institute of Maritime Technology.
The CSIR’s Kiri Nicolaides said: “Our team
developed a range of technology building
79
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
1960s as an insulator and an adhesive agent
for fixing brass terminals inside cast-iron
cable-junction boxes. In 1965, Pratley built
Humphrey, a robot, from scrap metal held
together by Pratley Putty.
The putty was the first of its kind in the
world and, apart from the moon landing, was
also used to halt cracking in one of the main
supports of the Golden Gate Bridge in San
Francisco, United States of America.
Dolosse
Dolosse – branching concrete blocks
weighing up to 30 tons – are used across the
globe to break up wave action. They were the
invention of East London harbour engineer
Eric Merrifield after a storm ripped into the
Eastern Cape coast of South Africa in 1963
and tore off 60% of East London harbour’s
armour. Merrifield wondered if the breakwater
would have been more resistant if it had not
been solid and taking on the full force of the
thundering surf on just one plane. He decided
to reconstruct the breakwater using a “porous”
design to dissipate the water’s energy. Thus,
the dolos was born and a momentous novelty
in harbour engineering took off. Free of
patents, this Eastern Cape design is today
used on breakwaters, harbours, jetties and
coastlines across the globe.
The Coega Project, comprising an industrial
development complex and deepwater port
20 kilometres east of the city of Port
Elizabeth, made history with the casting of
the biggest dolosse on the African continent:
26 500 30-ton dolosse are used on the two
breakwaters for the deep-water harbour of
Ngqura.
Retinal Cryoprobe
Selig Percy Amoils, pioneering inventor
and biomedical engineer, was born
in Johannesburg in 1933. Amoils first
pioneered cryosurgery for cataracts and
retinal detachments in 1962. This led to the
Cryoprobe in 1965 that forever changed the
method of cataract and retinal surgery.
For this invention, Amoils achieved
world recognition and a Queen’s Award.
His Cryoprobe has been on display in the
Kensington Museum in London next to the
inventions of Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor
of wireless telegraphy, and Alexander Graham
Bell who invented the telephone.
Cybertracker
Biologists everywhere rejoiced when physicist
Louis Liebenberg and computer scientist
Lindsay Steventon created the Cybertracker
in 1996. Used to track animals of all shapes
and sizes, it uses a satellite navigational
system similar to GPS that allows scientists
Cybertracker

80
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
blocks … which can achieve an image using
only 96 sensors. This should make the
system much cheaper than 3D underwater
imaging systems currently available, due
to its acoustic properties, of a much higher
resolution.”
Fingerprint identification classifier
In 2011, the CSIR developed a world-
first fingerprint identification technique.
The structural fingerprint classifier is
able to correctly classify a fingerprint with
only partial information. CSIR Head of
Information Security, Professor Fulufhelo
Nelwamondo, explained the need for the
model. “In fingerprint recognition, fingerprint
templates normally sit in a database,
so when going through an identification
process, the system has to sift through
thousands, if not millions of templates,
making the system slow in yielding results.
“The extensible fingerprint classifier
will allow the system to be extremely
fast and accurate when a database
search is conducted. It will increase the
overall efficiency of the entire fingerprint
recognition system.”
Digital drum
The digital drum is a co-creation of the
CSIR and the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF) and was cited in Time
magazine as one of the top 50 inventions
in 2011. The drum is a computer system
that gives people access to information
on issues such as health and education.
The design is based on the CSIR’s digital
doorway, a stand-alone computer system to
promote self-learning of computer literacy
and information skills.
The CSIR’s Grant Cambridge said:
“The digital drum design proved to be an
innovative way for UNICEF and the CSIR
to address a need through a solution
developed in the absence of technology.”
FEATURE SA INNOVATIONS CHANGING THE WORLD
In 2011, the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research developed a world-first fingerprint
identification technique
. The structural fingerprint
classifier is able to correctly classify a fingerprint
with only partial information
.
Full-body X-ray scanner
Lumkani fire detection
http://www.thesouthafrican.com / the-top-10-south-african-
inventions /http://www.timeslive.co.za/scitech/2014/07/08/13-of-
south-africa-s-boldest-science-innovations / www.southafrica.info /
www.southafrica.net / http://innovationprizeforafrica.org

81
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  81Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURESA INNOVATIONS CHANGING THE WORLD
i
South Africans continue to produce
innovative solutions. Four of the 10 finalists
in the 2015 Innovation Prize for Africa awards
were South Africans:
Lumkani fire detection
David Gluckman’s innovation is an off-the-
shelf fire-detection device and alert service
that uses radio frequency transmission
technology suitable for informal dwellings.
In the event of a fire, the device sounds an
alarm to alert the family.
Within 20 seconds, the device triggers
a signal that sets off heat detectors in a
60-metre radius to elicit a community-wide
response to the fire. This device prevents
fires from ravaging high-population-density
communities and boosts community
mobiliation efforts.
Mellowcabs
Neil Du Preez’s innovation, Mellowcabs, is a
suite of technologies that includes recovering
the kinetic energy that is typically lost in the
braking process, converting it into electricity
and storing it. Other innovations include
hydrogen fueled Mellowcabs, adaptable,
renewable body shells and an app to book
cab rides that can be paid for with cash or
credit. Other user-friendly services include
tracking the cab’s location, wifi access and
mobile charging during the ride.
The minicab service fills the gap for
commuters who need organised, safe and
affordable micro transport within a three-
mile radius. This environmentally friendly
taxi service also eases traffic congestions in
cities without causing pollution.
Seebox
Johan Pierre Kok’s innovation is a scientific
engineering educational "Seebox" that
allows children to enjoy a practical and
experimental way of learning sciences and
electronics, and measuring almost anything
electronic or scientific.
It also offers short videos explaining
what is being measured. This addresses
the shortage of electronic and scientific
professionals and affords children the
opportunity to learn firsthand the principles
of science and electronics by building,
measuring and experimenting.
Smartspot TBcheck
Lesley Erica Scott’s innovation is the
Smartspot’s flagship product, TBcheck,
which examines the accuracy of machines
used to diagnose tuberculosis (TB).
They are designed to assess whether
these machines are functioning optimally.
Unlike other products, TBcheck is easy
and safe to use and can be delivered to
laboratories economically.
This makes diagnosing TB far easier and
will go a long way in curbing the TB epidemic
in Africa. Today, TB is second only to HIV
and AIDS as a leading cause of death on the
continent.
Dolosse Digital laser

82
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

83
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

84
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
A
n indication of growing
international interest in the
potential of cultural and
creative industries can
be seen in a recent set of
United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organisation
(UNESCO) guidelines on how to measure
and compile statistics about the economic
contribution of the cultural industries.
But should this be the only reason for
funding arts and culture?
Cultural industries can be defined as those
whose major outputs have some symbolic
value – such as fine arts, film and craft –
but also possibly including jewellery design,
publishing and fashion. Creative industries are
FEATURE WHY ARTS AND CULTURE CONTRIBUTE MORE TO AN ECONOMY AND JOBS
Why arts and culture
contribute more to an
economy than growth
and jobs
By Jen Snowball
Professor of Economics at Rhodes University
South Africa is increasingly beginning to focus
on its cultural and creative industries as potential
contributors to economic growth and job creation
.
defined more broadly. These have knowledge
as their major input, and in addition to cultural
goods and services could include things such
as software design and Internet services.
UNESCO has provided guidelines on ways
in which these industries can be classified. But
there is still no international consensus. Nor
is there likely to be, since different countries
will have very different levels of involvement
and focus that may shape what information is
useful for them.
Cultural Times, the first global map of the
cultural and creative industries, which was
recently released, acknowledges the societal
value of arts and culture.
Undeniably, culture and creativity have been
the cement that binds together not only hearts
and souls, but entire societies and nations.
This survey quantifies the global economic
and social contribution of the sector. The
study analyses the following cultural and
creative industry sectors: advertising,
architecture, books, newspapers, magazines,
gaming and movies, music, performing arts,
radio, television and visual arts.
Cultural Times assesses the contribution of
cultural and creative industries to economic
growth. It estimates that they generate
US$250 billion in revenue a year, creating
29,5 million jobs worldwide. The report helps
to demonstrate the value of arts and culture.
It provides a good rationale for government
support of arts and culture, especially in
developing countries where there are so
many other demands on the public purse.
Contribution to jobs and growth in South
Africa
South Africa is increasingly beginning to
focus on its cultural and creative industries as
84
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

85
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
potential contributors to economic growth and
job creation. This is reflected in the report,
Mzansi’s Golden Economy, which sets out
ways in which the arts, culture and heritage
sectors can contribute to the growth and
development of the country’s economy.
In addition, the Government recently
established the National Cultural Observatory.
It will act as a hub for information and
research about the economic and social
impact of the creative and cultural industries.
South Africa did its first cultural and creative
industries mapping study in 2014.
Though not yet publicly available, it showed
that the industries had created between
162 809 and 192 410 jobs, about 1,08% to
1,28% of employment in the country, and
that they contributed 2,9% to gross domestic
product.
Based on interviews with a wide variety of
more than 2 000 people involved in the cultural
and creative sector, the study also found that
firms tended to be small, with more than a
quarter (27%) having only one employee, and
a further third (34%) employing between two
and five people.
Women and men were about equal in
proportion. More than three-quarters (77%)
were from black, coloured or Indian race
groups.
Given the severe youth unemployment in
South Africa, the industries may be particularly
important for job creation: 22% of employees
are younger than 18, 18% between 19 and
24, and 19% between 25 and 30. This means
that 60% of the workforce in the industries
is younger than 34. These findings echo
worldwide trends. The global mapping study
found that employment in the industries was
relatively open to people from all ages and
backgrounds (but especially the young),
and dominated by small firms. In developing
countries, production is dominated by the
informal economy.

Other spin-offs
The industries are also a potentially
important contributor to social cohesion and
nation-building through the promotion of
intercultural dialogue, understanding and
collaboration. These are part of a range of
spin-offs that artistic production can offer,
beyond the straight “instrumental value” –
those values that, while undeniably important,
are essentially spin-offs of the main point of
artistic production.
The “intrinsic” values and aims of culture,
“art for art’s sake”, are things such as: to
entertain, delight, challenge, give meaning,
interpret, raise awareness and stimulate.
These non-market values are difficult to
measure in monetary terms, but are just as
important as the instrumental values. While
jobs can be created by many economic
activities, what other kinds of production can
generate these same intrinsic values?
Cultural capital is one. This is defined as the
sum total of a country’s wealth or stock of art,
heritage and other kind of cultural expression.
Like other kinds of capital, it needs to be
invested in – otherwise it will depreciate and
be devalued over time.
Public and private sponsorship and
support of the arts is particularly important for
those producers whose main focus is intrinsic
value.
Such cultural production is often
challenging or disturbing and, while it has
a big impact on collective thinking, may not
be a financial or market success or may be
distributed for free. Think, for example, of
the role played by music in the fight against
apartheid. While recognising and supporting
the very important role that the cultural and
creative industries play in the economy,
I would argue that we shouldn’t lose sight of
the unique intrinsic values that they generate.
This includes the reflection and shaping of
national and individual identities.
This opinion piece was first published by The Conversation
FEATUREWHY ARTS AND CULTURE CONTRIBUTE MORE TO AN ECONOMY AND JOBS
85Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

86
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
M
ore international film
productions should be
encouraged in South
Africa to strengthen
the country's economy,
Trade and Industry
Minister, Rob Davies, said at an event to
publicise a recent United States television
production in the country, the historical series,
Of Kings and Prophets.
The rand-dollar exchange rate was a boon
to foreign film production, he said: "It means
they have a huge advantage; it just makes
it much cheaper for them." Minister Davies
added that the training and experience for
the local film production workforce, covering
everything from acting to production and
behind the scenes, were an immeasurable
boost for the South African talent involved.
Service providers and other industries also
benefit from the investments.
Since the introduction of its film incentive
programme by the Department of Trade and
FEATURE
SHIPWRECK DISCOVERY PROVIDES INSIGHT INTO TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE
International film
productions boost South
African economy, skills
Directors, writers, actors and hands-on
production staff are taking the lessons learned
from working on international productions and
using these to tell local stories and build the
industry
.
Industry (dti) in 2004, 20% of preproduction
and production spending by international
film productions in South Africa had gone
directly into the country and its workforce, the
department said – even more if postproduction
work (including using local visual effects and
editing companies) was completed in South
Africa.
The effects of this investment were being
felt in all areas of the industry, according to a
2012 baseline report by Deloitte.
It showed that the industry achieved an
economic multiplier of 2,89 – for every rand
spent in the industry, R1,89 was generated
within the local economy. In total, since 2004,
R15 billion has been invested in South Africa
and its people.
Film and television production added
R5 billion to Cape Town's economy, according
to the city; a city of choice for local and foreign
filmmakers.
More importantly, it added 35 000 new local
jobs between 2011 and 2014. Productions
include the Leonard DiCaprio hit, Blood
Diamond, Safe House  starring Denzil
Washington and, most recently, the acclaimed
Mad Max: Fury Road.
Johannesburg, not to be left out, has also
enjoyed its fair share of Hollywood filmmaking
glitz and financial boost as the backdrop to hit
films such as District 9 and Chappie, a scene
in the second Avengers movie and local
hits such as Jerusalema  and Fanie Fourie's
Lobola.
 Over the last five years, the local film
industry – telling original South Africa stories
for film and television for local and international
markets – has grown exponentially. Directors,
writers, actors and hands-on production staff
are taking the lessons learned from working
on international productions and using these
to tell local stories and build the industry.
Between 2011 and 2013, the industry
produced 25 films for theatre release,
generating 11% of industry-wide box-office
takings, or R98 million (about $6,4 million) of
R879 million.
During the first half of 2014, more than a
dozen local films accounted for R33 million of
the R382 million total box office gross. These
films covered diverse genres and fortunes:
action, drama, comedy, documentary and
art house. Successful movies such as Anant
Singh's epic Long Walk to Freedom, the Spud
trilogy, numerous Afrikaans-language box

87
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
office hits and, most recently, the sleeper
success of the romantic drama Ayanda, have
all benefited from the development of the local
film industry via large international input.
 Of Kings and Prophets, a production
by the American Broadcasting Corporation
(ABC), was recently filmed in Cape Town. It
is officially, according to the dti, the largest
production filmed in South Africa. Direct
production spend by ABC is estimated at
over R450 million, with R391 million of that
expenditure qualifying for a 20% rebate for
the South African Government.
According to the dti, estimated direct and
indirect tax revenue for the local economy is
estimated to be R70 million.
Almost all of the crew on the production
were South African, according to ABC,
covering everything from costume design to
casting and set construction.
Sets – interiors are in a Stellenbosch
warehouse and exteriors are in Durbanville
– were reputably some of the largest ever
built in South Africa and were coordinated
by a full South African workforce, headed
by production design veteran Johnny
Breedt. Breedt also worked on Long Walk
To Freedom, Hotel Rwanda  and The No.1
Ladies' Detective Agency series.
Of the 600 to 850 crew members working
on the series, 50% were from "previously
disadvantaged" groups, Minister Davies said,
including 26 South African trainees and film
graduates in 12 production departments.
Their training was provided by the local
non-profit Film Industry Learner Mentorship
(Film) Programme and was financed
by the dti.
A total of 829 local production vendors
and service providers – including catering,
manufacturing and hospitality assistance –
were used by the production.
The series' co-executive producer,
Chris Brancato, praised the work ethic
of the South African Production team,
highlighting the ethnic diversity of the
crew, particularly in fulfilling various high-
skill roles – something he called a rarity in
Hollywood.
Speaking to Business Day, Brancato
said the assistance from the local industry
and the Government did not disappoint.
Comparing the differences between the
American and South African counterparts,
FEATURE
SHIPWRECK DISCOVERY PROVIDES INSIGHT INTO TRANSATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE
he said seasoned Hollywood film industry
members working on the Of Kings …
production were incredibly impressed with
the work ethic and skills level South Africans
had shown, adding that it "is not a common
response in Hollywood".
Another ABC production head, Gary
French, reiterated the international film
community's enthusiasm for working in South
Africa and with South Africa talent, telling
Business Day: "We couldn't have done it
without the South Africans who have come on
to our show and become part of our family."

Bizcommunity / Business Day / Southafrica.info
Between 2011 and 2013,
the industry produced 25 films
for theatre release, generating
11% of industry-wide box-office
takings, or R98 million (about
$6,4 million) of R879 million
.

88
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICA IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS
S
outh Africa is one of the
most sophisticated, diverse
and promising emerging
markets in the world.
Strategically located
at the tip of the African
continent, South Africa is a key investment
location, both for the commercial opportunities
within its borders and the potential it offers
as a gateway to the rest of the continent – a
market of some one billion people.
South Africa has enormous potential as an
investment destination: a unique combination
of highly developed first-world economic
infrastructure with a vibrant emerging market
economy. It is also one of the most advanced,
broad-based industrial and productive
economies in Africa.
Here are just 10 of the many reasons to do
business in South Africa:
Sound economic policies
So
uth Africa’s disciplined fiscal framework
promotes domestic competitiveness,
growth and employment and increases the
economy’s outward orientation.
Key economic reforms have created solid
macroeconomic stability.
Taxes have been reduced, tariffs lowered,
the fiscal deficit brought under control and
exchange controls relaxed.
Despite its bright prospects, South Africa
still faces the key challenges of poverty,
unemployment and inequality.
The National Development Plan (NDP) is
a bold effort to overcome these.
The plan aims, by the year 2030,
to achieve a real annual economic growth
rate of 5%, reduce inequality and rein in
unemployment from its current 25% to a
mere 6%.
Two ambitious economic frameworks support
the targets of the NDP:
• The New Growth Path aims to create
a more developed and equitable
economy, largely by creating five
million jobs.
• The Industrial Policy Action Plan aims
to promote broader participation by
historically disadvantaged groups
in the mainstream of the industrial
economy. It plans large-scale state
investment in infrastructure, small
business and skills development, and
interventions targeting specific areas
of the economy.
The South African Reserve Bank, the
central bank, maintains its independence
from government. Its programme of inflation
targeting has shown good results in stabilising
South Africa is open
for business
South Africa has
enormous potential
as an investment
destination: a unique
combination of highly
developed first-world
economic infrastructure
with a vibrant emerging
market economy
.

89
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURE
both interest and exchange rates. South
Africa’s investor-friendly policies also make it
clear that foreign investment is welcome.
A favourable business and legal
environment
South Africa’s Johannesburg Stock Exchange
(JSE) rates among the top 20 exchanges in
the world by market capitalisation.
The JSE is regarded as a mature, efficient
and secure market with world-class regulation,
trading, clearing, settlement assurance and
risk management. It has harmonised its listing
requirements, disclosure and continuing
obligations with those of the London Stock
Exchange and offers superb investor
protection.
The World Economic Forum’s (WEF)
2015 – 16 Global Competitiveness Index
rates South Africa first in the world –
out of 140 countries – for financing
through the local equity market, and
second for the regulation of securities
exchanges. The index also rates
South Africa first for the strength of
auditing and reporting standards,
and gives it third place for both
the efficacy of corporate boards,
and the protection of minority
shareholders’ interests.
South African law is historically
founded on Roman-Dutch
law, although aspects of it –
particularly company law and
the law of evidence – have
been heavily influenced by English law.
General commercial legal practices relating
to transactions and the drafting of commercial
agreements are generally globally applicable
and in line with international norms and
conventions.
South Africa’s globally admired and
progressive Constitution — which includes a
Bill of Rights – is the highest law of the land,
regulating the protection of human rights and
the principles behind all legislation. One of
its guarantees is the independence of the
judiciary.
Trade and industry take place in a free
enterprise economy. The courts are open to
foreigners on exactly the same terms and
conditions as South African citizens. But
many commercial disputes avoid the courts,
instead being resolved with arbitration and by
agreement between the parties.
Sanctity of contract is protected under
common law, and independent courts ensure
respect for commercial rights and obligations.
World-class infrastructure
South Africa has world-class infrastructure
– including a modern transport network,
sophisticated telecommunications and superb
tourism facilities.
The Government has identified massive
infrastructure projects as key to boosting the
country’s economic growth rate and creating
employment, and is spending billions of rands
on getting the investment ball rolling.
South Africa’s success in hosting the
world’s largest sporting event, the 2010 FIFA
World Cup, has shown that the country is
capable of undertaking – and successfully
completing – major projects on time.
Access to markets
Its position at the southern tip of the
continent gives South Africa easy access
to the 14 countries in the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) – with a
combined market of over 250 million people.
The country is also an excellent launchpad
to the islands off Africa’s east coast, and even
the Gulf States and India.
South Africa is a trans-shipment point
between the emerging markets of Central and
South America and the newly industrialised
nations of South and Far East Asia.
Major shipping lanes pass along the South
African coastline in the South Atlantic and
Indian oceans.
The country’s seven commercial ports form
by far the largest, best equipped and most
efficient network in Africa.
The gateway to Africa
Africa, with 200 to 300 million of its people
approaching middle-class status, is seen as
the next great growth story after China and
India. The McKinsey Global Institute has
identified Africa as the world’s second-fastest
growing region. This growth is “creating
substantial new business opportunities” for
global companies.
South Africa allows easy access to the
other markets of sub-Saharan Africa. It is one
of the economic powerhouses of the continent
and considered a dynamic force in SADC.
Bordering Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe,
Mozambique, Swaziland and Lesotho, its
well-developed road and rail links provide
the platform and infrastructure for ground
transportation deep into sub-Saharan Africa.
South Africa also has the resident marketing
skills and distribution channels to open up
commercial ventures into the rest of Africa.
South Africa has a host of investment
incentives and industrial financing
interventions to encourage commercial
activity. The country’s trade rules favour a
further expansion in its already burgeoning
international trade.
The special International Headquarter
Company regime is aimed at positioning
South Africa as a holding company gateway
for foreign multinationals investing in Africa.
Trade reform and global strategic alliances
South Africa has trading relationships with
more than 200 countries and territories.
In 2011, the country was admitted to the
BRIC group of major developing economies
– Brazil, Russia, India and China – renamed
BRICS. In 2015, the BRICS group set up
the New Development Bank to help finance
the growth of emerging economies. Each of
the five countries has a 20% shareholding in
the bank, which has an authorised capital of
US$100 billion.
The bank will be headquartered in
Shanghai, China. Its first regional office, the
Africa Regional Centre, is to be set up in South
Africa’s commercial hub, Johannesburg.
The BRICS countries have also established
a Contingent Reserve Agreement, in which
they undertake to provide financial support to
each other in the event of balance of payment
problems.
South Africa also has special relationships
with the Southern African Customs Union
(Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho and Swaziland),
SADC and the European Union (EU).
South Africa has become a key trade
and investment partner to China, today a
South Africa allows easy access to the other
markets of sub-Saharan Africa. It is one of the
economic powerhouses of the continent and
considered a dynamic force in the Southern African
Development Community.
South Africa has a host of investment incentives
and industrial financing interventions to encourage
commercial activity. The country’s trade rules
favour a further expansion in its already burgeoning
international trade.
SOUTH AFRICA IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS

90
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
major investor in Africa. Plans are afoot for a
continental free trade area to boost commerce
within Africa, further opening up opportunities
for South African companies.
Trade agreements further the aims of the
South African Government to accelerate
growth and industrial development. The
Economic Development Division of the
Department of Trade and Industry is
responsible for trade negotiations.
The cost of doing business in South Africa
South Africa’s exchange rate makes it one of
the least expensive countries for foreigners
to live and do business in – with a first-world
infrastructure and high living standards
ensuring good value for money.
While energy costs have increased in
recent years, government plans to meet
the country’s growing energy needs with
renewable and efficient sources.
South Africa compares favourably for
petroleum prices, with private sector and
multinational oil companies refining and
marketing nearly all imported petroleum
products in southern Africa.
Telecommunications costs are coming
down.
The Government is taking steps to ensure
cheaper and more widely available bandwidth
capacity, while the landing of several
submarine fibre-optic cables along both the
East and West coasts of Africa has boosted
the continent’s connection with the rest of the
world.
South Africa’s corporate tax rate – 28% in
2015 – compares favourably with a number
of developing companies. Professional labour
costs are far lower than those in developed
economies.
The ease of doing business in South Africa
South Africa ranks 73rd out of 189 countries
in the World Bank and International Finance
Corporation’s 2016 Doing Business report.
The report is an annual survey of the time,
cost and hassle for businesses to comply with
legal and administrative requirements.
The survey rates the ease of doing
business in South Africa as higher than major
developing economies such as Brazil (116),
China (84), India (130) and Nigeria (169).
It also scores far above the sub-Saharan
African average rank of 143.
All companies planning to do business with
the South African Government and the general
business community must comply with Broad-
Based Black Economic Empowerment
policies. These aim to redress imbalances
and broaden the economy by ensuring
that members of historically disadvantaged
communities have greater access to it.
Industrial capability and cutting-edge
technology
South Africa’s manufacturing output is
increasingly technology-intensive.
The high-tech manufacturing sectors –
machinery, scientific equipment and motor
vehicles – enjoy a growing share of total
manufacturing production.
South Africa’s technological research and
quality standards are world-renowned. The
country has developed a number of leading
technologies, particularly in the fields of
energy and fuels, steel production, deep-level
mining, telecommunications and information
technology.
Competitiveness
South Africa ranks 49th out of 140
countries in the WEF’s 2015 – 16 Global
Competitiveness Index.
It is most highly ranked country in sub-
Saharan Africa, and claims the middle
ground among the BRICS countries – behind
China (28) and Russia (45), but ahead of
India (55) and Brazil (75).
South Africa’s government provides
incentives for value-added manufacturing
projects, support for industrial innovation,
improved access to finance and an
enabling environment for small business
development.
Industrial development zones have been
established in close proximity to major
ports and airports, offering world-class
infrastructure, dedicated customs support
and reduced taxation.
South Africa has a well-developed and
regulated competition regime based on best
international practice.
Competition legislation follows EU, United
States and Canadian models.
The law places various prohibitions
on anti-competitive conduct, restrictive
practices (such as price fixing, predatory
pricing and collusive tendering) and abuses
by “dominant” firms, defined as companies
with a market share of 35% or more.
www.southafrica.info
South Africa’s government provides incentives for
value-added manufacturing projects, support for
industrial innovation, improved access to finance
and an enabling environment for small business
development
.
South Africa’s technological research and quality
standards are world-renowned. The country has
developed a number of leading technologies,
particularly in the fields of energy and fuels, steel
production, deep-level mining, telecommunications
and information technology.
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICA IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS
South Africa's Capitec Bank has been
ranked the best in the world, according
to international banking advisory group
Lafferty, in its inaugural Bank Quality
Rankings.
The organisation makes use of a
combination of financial and non-financial
disclosures to determine the quality of
the banks and their respective business
models.
"We saw a correlation between a bank's
quality and its value to investors," reads
the Lafferty website. "So we looked for the
key factors that investors pay a premium
for. Then we rated each bank for each of
these key factors, to give an overall quality
score."
Other indicators were also taken into
account when analysing results: strategy,
culture, customer satisfaction, executing
brand promises and other criteria.
"Our aim is to promote excellence
in banking – for customers, staff,
communities, society at large and not least
for bank shareholders and investors," said
Lafferty Group founder and chief executive,
Michael Lafferty.
According to business news website,
Businesstech, Absa was the second-
highest ranked South African bank with
four stars. Standard Bank, Nedbank and
FirstRand also featured in the top 100
banks.
www.southafrica.info
i

91
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
SINCE 1940
OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
The manufacturing industry has the potential to make a
major impact on South Africa’s economy. The Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC) funded Hall Longmore for
the purchase of raw materials and plant equipment. The
funding enabled the company to save jobs and recover
all the way to proﬁ  tability. Hall Longmore is now ranked
amongst the leading international suppliers of Electric
Resistance Welded and Spiral Welded steel piping for the
transportation of water, gas and petro chemicals. The IDC,
an entity of government, continues to play a critical role in
coordinating key industrial sectors across the economy
to advance industrial development. The IDC can fund
your business. Call 0860 693 888 or visit idc.co.za for
information about the sectors that the IDC supports.
IDC helps Hall
Longmore save jobs
/10001219SM

92
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
200 years of South African
coinage celebrated
T
he Griqua Town 200 R5 coin,
released by the South African
Reserve Bank (SARB) on
12 January 2016, celebrates
the 200th anniversary of the
creation of the first coinage
created for a local community in South Africa.
As the first town to be established north of
the Orange River, Griekwastad, or Griquatown
(originally called Klaarwater), is one of the
country's most important foundation towns.
It was a stopover on the trade route and
therefore  important for commerce throughout
the history of the country.
According to the SARB, the Griqua
currency became the first South African
According to the South African
Reserve Bank, the Griqua
currency became the first
South African currency in 1815
.
It also became the country’s
first decimal coinage and the
world’s first Christian Missionary
coinage
.
FEATURE 200 YEARS OF SOUTH AFRICAN COINAGE CELEBRATED
Bank since the first bi-metallic R5 was
introduced in 2004.
Other notable commemorative coins
include the 2008 Nelson Mandela 90th
birthday coin, the 90th anniversary of the
SARB in 2011 and the 20th anniversary of
democracy coin, issued in 2014.
The coin, with its bronze-coloured centre
and a silver-coloured border, includes
security features such as the serrated and
grooved edges and micro-lettering. These
features are still part of the Griqua coin.
The Griqua coin R5 will be part of normal
circulation coinage and is considered legal
tender, alongside other R5 coins already in
circulation throughout the country.
currency in 1815. It also became the country's
first decimal coinage and the world's first
Christian Missionary coinage.
The town is considered an important
missionary town, and was the home of
Scottish minister, Robert Moffat, who wrote
the first Setswana translation of the bible.
The reverse of the R5 coin features an
image of the original 1815 Griquatown coin,
engraved with the words "Coinage of Griqua
Town 200. 1815 – 2015".
The obverse side of the coin bears the
South African Coat of Arms and the acronym,
SARB.
The Griqua Town R5 coin is the fourth
commemorative R5 issued by the Reserve
92 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

93
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
200 years of South African
coinage celebrated
FEATURE200 YEARS OF SOUTH AFRICAN COINAGE CELEBRATED
i
The South African Mint Company, which
is more than 120 years old, is one of the
foremost preservers of South Africa’s
heritage.
It is one of the world’s leading mints
and over the years has earned a
worldwide reputation for its customer
service, exceptional craftsmanship and
the high standard of its quality coins. The
Circulation Coin Division manufactures
legal tender coins that are used in
everyday transactions, as well as coin
blanks which are sold to other mints for
final minting.  Over and above producing
all South African circulation coins, the
company also produces circulation coins
and coin blanks for the international
export market that are used as currency in
numerous countries in Africa.
The South African Mint offers central
banks and other mints a one-stop service
that includes coin designing, creation of
master dies, manufacturing of production
dies, manufacturing of coin blanks, minting
of coins, as well as partial deliveries of the
finished products to the customers’ vaults.
The company’s state-of-the-art
manufacturing facility located at
Centurion, Pretoria, ensures that it is able
to meet various customer requirements
and specifications.
Some of the circulation coin metal alloys
produced by the company include copper,
bronze and nickel electroplated products,
as well as products made from stainless
steel and various copper-based alloy
compositions of copper, nickel, aluminium,
zinc, tin and other metals.
The Mint Museum displays coins
that reflect the numismatic history of
the country as well as various artifacts
and pieces of equipment that was used
previously to manufacture coins and dies.
Among the items on display is the “Oom
Paul Minting Press”.
This is one of the oldest working coin
presses in the world with a manufacturing
date of 1891. President Paul Kruger, then
President of the old Zuid-Afrikaansche
Republiek ordered two presses from
Ludw. Loew & Co. in Berlin to be used
at the first South African Mint on Church
Square, Pretoria. More than eight million
coins were minted between 1892 and
1900 on the “Oom Paul”. The so-called
“Kruger millions”, Sammy Marks golden
tickeys, special 1947 crowns for the visit
of the British Royal family, the first decimal
1c coins in 1961, the first Kruger Rand in
1967, the first gold Protea in 1986 and the
first R2 coin were minted on this historical
press.
The first of South Africa’s various other
new 24-carat gold coin series was also
launched on this press.
www.samint.co.za
For coin collectors, the South African Mint, a
subsidiary of the SARB, has issued special
Griqua Town coin sets, which include
R5 non-circulation collectors’ coins.
The sets include R2 silver crowns,
R2 gold coins and R5 regular circulation
coins and proof.
These sets are available at the South
African Mint in Centurion, Gauteng.
The SARB issues commemorative
circulation coins as part of its production
of currency and they are usually issued
to commemorate an event that involves a
wider section of society, and such coins are
made available and accessible to the public
at face value.
Among the items on display at the Mint Museum is the " Oom Paul Minting Press"

94
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

95
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

96
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
South Africa celebrates
her armed forces
The Armed Forces Day celebration coincided with
the anniversary of the fateful sinking of the
SS Mendi vessel along the English Channel
on the same day in 1917
.
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICA CELEBRATES HER ARMED FORCES

97
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURESOUTH AFRICA CELEBRATES HER ARMED FORCES

98
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
E
ach year, 21 February is
dedicated to celebrating
South Africa's armed forces.
It is a platform that enables
the South African National
Defence Force (SANDF) to
showcase its latest military equipment and
technologies that are used to protect the
country. Speaking at the Arms Forces Day
celebrations, held in Port Elizabeth, President
Jacob Zuma said South African soldiers
continued to perform exceptionally well in
peace missions in Africa and had done the
country proud. The day is used by the military
to demonstrate the military combat readiness
of the SANDF, against any threats to the
sovereignty of South Africa.
It also provides youth the opportunity to
find out about careers that are available in the
SANDF.
President Zuma commended the work of
the SANDF which went beyond protecting
the country, as the forces also came in
handy when there were natural disasters,
medical emergencies and for their assistance
towards police in those rare occasions that
required a maximum response to crime, such
as Operation Fiela.
The President said one of the key
demonstrations of the success of South
Africa’s participation in peacekeeping
missions was the recent appointment by
the United Nations (UN) of Lieutenant-
General Derrick Mbuyiselo Mgwebi as the
Force Commander of the 20 000-strong
UN Mission in the eastern part of the
Democratic Republic of Congo, called
MONUSCO.
“This is the largest UN Peace Support
Operation in the world and on the continent.
“The appointment of General Mgwebi is
a clear indication of the confidence that the
UN has in South Africa and the role and
contribution we have made in peacekeeping
on the continent and beyond,” said the
President.
“This appointment is, therefore, not only
an honour to General Mgwebi personally,
but also to South Africa as a whole,” said the
President.
South Africa plays its role mandated mainly
by the African Union (AU) with the support of
the UN, and participates in peace missions
on the continent.
“We do this because we want to see peace
and stability on our continent.
... one of the key demonstrations of the success
of South Africa’s participation in peacekeeping
missions was the recent appointment by the
United Nations (UN) of Lieutenant-General Derrick
Mbuyiselo Mgwebi as the Force Commander of the
20 000-strong UN Mission in the eastern part of the
Democratic Republic of Congo, called MONUSCO
.
FEATURE SOUTH AFRICA CELEBRATES HER ARMED FORCES

99
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Thousands of spectators and guests crowded the
Port Elizabeth beachfront and were treated to a
mock land and sea rescue by SANDF members,
including the special forces and SA Navy.
The military had warships, aircraft and equipment
on display, including the G6, Olifant main battle
tank and Rooikat.
"We want to see the end of suffering o f
women and children in Africa. We want to
see the end of the flight of Africans from their
countries because of wars and conflicts.
“We are passionate about peace and that
is why our armed forces are always ready to
participate in peacekeeping missions.”
President Zuma said the AU had taken
a resolution that guns must be silenced in
Africa by 2020. South Africa is playing its part
meaningfully towards the achievement of that
goal.
President Zuma called on the SANDF to
open up to the public and teach people about
its work.
“I would like to see more and more
interaction between the SANDF and our
people.
"It should not just end here and today. The
SANDF belongs to the people of South Africa.
"It serves our people, and they need to
know more about their defence force,” he
said. He said the primary objective of the
defence force was to defend and protect the
Republic, its territorial integrity and its people
in accordance with the Constitution and the
principles of international law regulating
the use of force. The Armed Forces Day
celebration coincided with the anniversary
of the fateful sinking of the SS Mendi  vessel
along the English Channel on the same day
in 1917.
“2017 will mark the centenary of the sinking
on the SS Mendi, a huge milestone in our
military, as we remember our fallen heroes,”
he said.
Thousands of spectators and guests
crowded the Port Elizabeth beachfront
and were treated to a mock land and sea
rescue by SANDF members, including the
special forces and SA Navy. The military had
warships, aircraft and equipment on display,
including the G6, Olifant main battle tank and
Rooikat. Hawk and Gripen fighter aircraft and
attack helicopters made several formation
flypasts, as the public commentator noted that
some demonstrations were the first before a
viewing public. Drills included two inflatable
boats being dropped by parachute and
soldiers “para-dropping” to swim to specific
targets. The Armed Forces Day was preceded
by various activities during the week of 13 to
20 February 2016.
African News Agency / www.gov.za/www.defenceweb.co.za
FEATURESOUTH AFRICA CELEBRATES HER ARMED FORCES

100
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
O
n 30 January 2016, South African scientist, Prof. Tebello Nyokong,
was presented with the African Union (AU) Kwame Nkrumah Scientific
Award at the AU Summit of Heads of State and Government in Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.
The AU Kwame Nkrumah Awards are given annually to African scientists
who have distinguished themselves in the fields of science, technology and
innovation. Through the awards, the AU seeks to acknowledge the importance
of science and technology in the development of the continent.
Prof. Nyokong is a Distinguished Professor at Rhodes University and
director of the Nanotechnology and Innovation Centre (NIC), a national
science facility established by the Department of Science and Technology in
2007. Among other things, the NIC’s work includes research and development
in various scientific fields, aimed at driving South Africa’s transformation from
a resource-based economy towards a knowledge-based economy using
nanotechnology.
Congratulating Prof. Nyokong, the Minister of Science and Technology,
Naledi Pandor, said that this proved that South Africa and Africa had world-
class scientists. “Our congratulations go to Prof. Tebello Nyokong for shining
the spotlight on South Africa by winning such a prestigious award.”
Last year, another distinguished South African scientist, Prof. Salim Abdool
Karim, won the same award. Prof. Nyokong is also a recipient of the National
Order of Mapungubwe in Bronze.
Flying the SA flag
Sithole does South Africa proud at Australian Open
S
outh African Lucas Sithole and playing
partner David Wagner from the United
States of America (USA) beat the British/
Australian combination of Andy Lapthorne and
Dylan Alcott 6-1, 6-3 at the Australian Open
held in Melbourne recently to claim the top
spot in the wheelchair tennis quad doubles
final.
It was Sithole’s second Grand Slam title
following his win at the US Open singles final
in 2013.
“I enjoyed the match very much,” an excited
Sithole told News24 after the game. “It was
great to play with David Wagner again.”
The partners have been playing together
and against each other since 2013, developing
a healthy rivalry vying for the top ranking and
building a solid friendship along the way.
Sithole, who is triple amputee, lost both his
legs and his right arm in a childhood accident.
He started playing tennis professionally
in 2006, representing South Africa at a
tournament in the Netherlands, considered
the de-facto home of wheelchair tennis.
The 20-year-old, who grew up in the small
mining town of Dannhauser in KwaZulu-Natal,
has won seven titles and risen to become the
one of the best singles players in the world.
He is now setting his sights on the Rio
Olympics, hoping to earn himself and South
Africa a gold medal.
News24Wire
SA scientist wins continental scientific award
Baleka Mbete awarded for distinguished leadership
I
n January 2016, the Speaker of the National
Assembly, Baleka Mbete, received the
2016 Martin Luther King Legacy Award for
International Service in Washington DC, in
the United States of America (USA).
The Martin Luther King Legacy Award for
International Service is bestowed annually
by a Washington-based health organisation
– the Institute for the Advancement of
Multicultural & Minority Medicine – as part of
the commemorative celebrations in honour of
the late Dr King’s birthday on 15 January.
Previous winners of this award include
conservative US Republican senator,
Bob Dole; former US Secretary of State,
General Colin Powell; former United Nations
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan; as well as
various ambassadors from the USA, France,
Africa, the United Kingdom and Germany.
www.SAnews.gov.za / www.sapeople.com
100 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11

101
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
S
outh African chef, Jan Hendrik van der
Westhuizen, has received a Michelin Star
for his restaurant in Nice, France. The highest
achievement for a chef is a Michelin Star.
The restaurant in the Côte d’Azur was one
of 52 to receive a star for 2016. Last year,
Restaurant JAN was voted as one of the best
restaurants in the world by Conde Nast Traveller,
which praised its “healthy modern cooking”. The
South African chef, who’s cooking is inspired by
his grandmother, wins customers’ and critics’
hearts alike with a menu that often features
South African favourites like biltong, mussels,
fish curry and malva pudding, among others.
SA chef gets Michelin Star
The “Oscars of the Food World”, the Michelin
Stars are awarded annually for Michelin Guides,
which are a series of annual guide books
published by the French company Michelin for
more than a century.
The Michelin Red Guide is the oldest
European hotel and restaurant reference guide.
The acquisition or loss of a star can have
dramatic effects on the success of a restaurant.
Japan and France are the two countries with
the highest number of three-starred restaurants.
There is no Michelin Guide available for South
Africa so Michelin Stars are not awarded to
chefs based here.
Food24
F
ormer Rivonia trialists were in the United Kingdom (UK) recently to
receive the Freedom of the City of London.
“The Rivonia generation symbolises the best values of the liberation
movement, including selflessness, courage and providing leadership
T
he 2016 Edinburgh Medal was jointly
awarded to Kevin Govender from the
Cape Town-based Office of Astronomy for
Development (OAD) and the International
Astronomical Union (IAU) on 30 March at
the 2016 Edinburgh International Science
Festival to recognise their wide-reaching
contributions to science.
It is the first time in its history that this
award goes to a South African.
It is awarded jointly for the creation and
practical establishment of the IAU Office
of the OAD, which integrates the pursuit of
Prestigious Edinburgh Medal awarded to a South African
Rivonia Trio receive Freedom of City of London by example,” said Neeshan Balton, director of the Ahmed Kathrada
Foundation. Kathrada, Andrew Mlangeni and Denis Goldberg were joined
by their legal representatives, George Bizos and Joel Joffe, to receive
the award in recognition of their fight for freedom and racial equality. The
Freedom of the City of London, believed to have begun in 1237, is conferred
on individuals by the City of London Corporation to “help celebrate a
significant achievement, or to pay tribute to their outstanding contribution
to London life or public life”. They met Prime Minister David Cameron and
made various appearances.
“The Freedom of the City of London is the highest recognition that the
city can give to a citizen of the UK or an outsider ... For Mr Kathrada it is an
honour, especially to be receiving it among the remaining Rivonia trialists,”
said Zaakirah Vadi, spokesperson for the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation.
Past recipients include Princess Diana, Morgan Freeman and Winston
Churchill. “Their struggle, arrests, incarceration and subsequent freedom
epitomise the transition the country underwent. In a way, this award is a
tribute to their vision of a non-racial future – a value championed from as far
back as 1955, with South Africans from across racial lines working together
to challenge the apartheid state,” Balton said.
www.timeslive.co.za
scientific knowledge with social development
for and with those most in need.
The office, launched in 2011 by the Minister
of Science and Technology, Naledi Pandor,
is hosted at the South African Astronomical
Observatory in Cape Town, South Africa,
in partnership with the National Research
Foundation and the South African Department
of Science and Technology. Under the
pioneering stewardship of its first Director,
Kevin Govender, the OAD has successfully
harnessed astronomy in the service of global
education and capacity-building.
The OAD was established as part of the
IAU’s decadal strategic plan “Astronomy for
Development”, which was initiated and driven
within the IAU by the renowned astronomer
Prof. George Miley.
The Edinburgh Medal is a prestigious
award given each year to men and women
of science and technology understanding
whose professional achievements are judged
to have made a significant contribution to the
understanding and well-being of humanity.
Kevin Govender and President of the IAU,
Silvia Torres Peimbert, was presented with
the Edinburgh Medal at the Chambers of
the City of Edinburgh Council on 30 March
2016.
They gave the Edinburgh Medal
Address, “Astronomy for a Better
World”, as part of the 2016 Edinburgh
International Science Festival, in the
presence of Lord Martin Rees, the
Astronomer Royal.
The 2016 Edinburgh International Science
Festival ran from 26 March to 10 April.
2016 Edinburgh Medal co-recipient
Govender commented: “Besides its
technological, scientific and cultural
contributions, astronomy fundamentally
gives us the perspective we need to change
the world, and it is amazing to see how this
vision has rallied people and organisations
from just about every continent.
"It has been, and continues to be, a
journey driven by many with a shared
passion for both science and society."
101Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

102
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Flying the SA flag
102 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
eam South Africa has won the 2016
International Schools Moot Court
competition, held in The Hague in the
Netherlands. The city is home to the United
Nations' International Court of Justice,
headquartered in the Peace Palace, and the
International Criminal Court (ICC).
This year, the competition, held from 18 to
22 January, focused on the issue of crimes
against humanity during a time of war.
Out of the 11 other countries that
participated in the competition – namely,
Argentina, Bulgaria, Germany, Mongolia,
Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Russia,
St Martens, United States of America (USA)
and Venezuela – South Africa triumphed over
Team USA in the final. The South African team
comprised pupils from various schools ranging
from rural to former Model C schools. The
successful team members were Nthabiseng
Mbatha, Simon Motsheweni, Paseka Selinyane,
Claire Rankin, Clara-Marie Macheke, Katelyn
Chettle and Shandre Smith.
“Contestants were given an opportunity to
argue both as defender and complainant using
international criminal law and treaties that are
relevant to the ICC,” said the Department of
Basic Education. “We take the opportunity to
congratulate Claire Rankin and Clara-Marie
Macheke from Springfield Convent in the Western
Cape for taking the top spot at the International
Schools Moot Court Competition at The Hague,
after toppling Team USA.” The competition is
usually presided over by the judges from the ICC.
This year, Judge Howard Morrison and Judge
Raul Pangalangan chaired the debate.

Department of Basic Education
T
hree South African writers have been
nominated in what has been called the
“world’s richest literary prize”, the International
Dublin Literary Award.
Zakes Mda’s Rachel’s Blue, Mandla
Langa’s The Texture of Shadows  and
Imraan Coovadia’s Tales of the Metric
System are in the running for the €100 000
(about R1,5 million) prize money.
The annual award is in its 21st year.
Nominations come in from libraries
across the world. “The nomination process
for the award is unique as nominations are
made by libraries in capital and major cities
throughout the world,” reads the Dublin
Literary Award website.
“Participating libraries can nominate up to
three novels each year for the award.
"Over 400 library systems in 177 countries
worldwide are invited to nominate books
each year.” The winner will be announced on
9 June 2016.
The three South Africans are among 160 titles
in the running this year.
The South African novels have already
been given the nod on the local literary scene.
Rachel’s Blue won the 2014/15 University
of Johannesburg Prize, The Texture of
Shadows was long-listed for the inaugural FT/
Oppenheimer Funds Emerging Voices Award
for Fiction and Tales of the Metric System was
shortlisted for the 2015 Barry Ronge Prize.
www.southafrica.info
South African authors nominated for international award
T
he 16-year-old South African ballet dancer, Leroy Mokgatle, has
won a scholarship at the Prix de Lausanne International Ballet
Competition in Switzerland.
“The first for South Africa in 28 years and the second in South African
history,” Art of Motion, his dance school in Randburg, Johannesburg,
said in a Facebook post. “Thank you to the world audience for voting our
SA candidate as their audience choice.”
Mokgatle was given the Audience Favourite Award following the finals
held in Lausanne on Saturday, 6 February, and won a scholarship to
further his studies at one of the 66 prestigious Prix de Lausanne partner
schools or dance companies around the world.
The previous South African winner was Ann Wixley, who received a
scholarship in 1988.
Mokgatle performed a classical and a contemporary dance at the event.
According to Art of Motion, Mokgatle moved to Johannesburg from
Pretoria in 2013 to train with the company.
SA ballet dancer wins international award
A win for Team South Africa in The Hague
Last September, Mokgatle won a gold medal at the prestigious
Genée International Ballet Competition. Art of Motion expressed
gratitude to the organisers of the Prix de Lausanne, saying it
was an “extraordinary experience; one that will remain with us
forever”.
news.24.com

103
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
103Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
I
n January 2016, Temba Bavuma became
South Africa’s new cricketing hero, scoring
his first Test century in the second Test against
England in Cape Town. In front of a captivated
crowd that included his father, Bavuma
helped the Proteas side fight back against a
formidable English team. His century was the
first scored by a black South African since the
country’s readmittance into the international
cricket fraternity in 1991.
While South Africa has produced some
exceptional and legendary black bowlers
such as Makhaya Ntini and Lonwabo
Tsotsobe, fans have been anxiously waiting
for a batsman like Bavuma to break the mold
of the typical South African batting line-up with
heaps of talent and unreserved drive to stand
toe to toe with the big guns, such as Hashim
Amla and AB De Villiers.
The 25-year-old Capetonian earned his
stripes playing for the Gauteng Lions, where
he has been since 2010, batting at an average
of 60. Despite his short stature – Bavuma is
1,67 m – he is known to hit the ball hard and
fast, with unusually high conversion rates for
half-centuries and centuries for the Lions.
T
eam South Africa returned home recently
from Turkey after an awesome win at the
Eurasian Schools Debating Championship
(ESDC) 2016.
The young South Africans won 9-0 in the
Grand Final debate opposing Team Romania
on the motion THBT (this house believes that)
employers should not require employees
to have university degrees. Team Romania
congratulated South Africa on winning
Team South Africa wins Eurasian Schools Debating Championships
Temba Bavuma makes South African cricket history
Bavuma debuted for the South African A side
in 2012 against Sri Lanka and represented
the Lions at the 2015 Africa T20 Cup against
the best of African cricket.
He played his first Test for the
Proteas against the West Indies in 2014,
and received the call-up again this season
to tackle the English in the traditional New
Year’s Test at Newlands, Cape Town.
Bavuma’s 102 (not out) helped
South Africa build a challenging score of 627
for the English to reach with only one day
remaining in the five-day Test.
www.southafrica.info
#ESDC2016 and wrote on Facebook that it
was “an exceptional performance from them
and a pleasure for us to face off in such an
engaging and high level debate”.
The South African champs also scooped the
top five speaker rankings in the tournament
with first place going to Steven Lochner,
second to Rebecca Mqamelo, third to William
Shoki, fourth to Katya Broomberg and fifth to
Grant Fourie.
While in Turkey, the team kept their
supporters updated on Facebook with their
adventures, which included tasting Turkish
tea for the first time, experiencing “angry
Istanbul traffic” and being caught out by
“sneaky” restaurant entrepreneurs.
The debating team will now train for the
World Schools’ Debating Championships to
be held in Stuttgart, Germany, in July this
year.
www.sapeople
F
ormer South African swimmer and Olympic gold medallist, Ryk Neethling,
has been named the latest Laureus Sport for Good Foundation
Ambassador.
Born in Bloemfontein, Neethling attended Grey College, where he excelled
in swimming, earning a place in the South African swimming team for the
1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. He has since been lauded as one of the
most accomplished swimmers to come out of South Africa.
Neethling named as Laureus ambassador
He currently holds the South African record in the 200-, 400-,
800- and 1 500-m freestyle events and up until August 2006 held
the 4x100-m freestyle relay world record.
Chairperson of the Laureus Sport for Good Foundation SA,
Morné du Plessis, said: “We are really excited to welcome Ryk
to the Laureus stable. Ryk has proved himself to be more than
just a triumphant sportsman.
“He has been an inspiration to swimmers across the country,
understanding the importance of nurturing talented sportspeople
and essentially playing a vital role as a mentor to champion
swimmers Chad le Clos and Cameron van den Berg.
“Ryk epitomises the Laureus philosophy, we are really excited
to have him on board.”
Responding to the announcement, Neetling said: “It’s a
massive honour for me to be named a Laureus ambassador – on
par with the privilege of being an Olympian. Not every Olympic
gold medallist is invited to become part of this elite organisation.
"It shows that you’ve achieved more than just a win but have
done something significant with it, and it is my goal to use my
influence for good."
Africa News Agency

104
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
In the grounds of the Union Buildings in Pretoria, is a Delville Wood Memorial in tribute to the South African troops who died in World
War I (WWI). South Africa entered WWI on 8 September 1914, on the side of the Allied Forces. On 15 July 1916, the SA Infantry
Brigade under Major-General HT Lukin was ordered to clear the wood at d'Elville, north-east of the village of Longueal, France,
of enemy soldiers, thereby covering the flanks of the British Brigade. The South Africans occupied the wood on that day, but the
problem was not so much to take the wood, than to hold it. Despite fierce counterattacks and artillery bombardments from German
divisions, the South African brigade refused to surrender. The brigade was relieved on 20 July after six days and five nights
of ferocious fighting. Only 750 soldiers remained of the brigade's 3 433 soldiers; the rest had either been killed or wounded.
The Battle of Delville Wood went down in the history of WWI as an example of supreme sacrifice and heroism and remained the
most costly action the South African Brigade fought on the Western Front.
www.sahistory.org.za

105
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

106
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE #A GOOD STORY TO TELL
Tourism in SA comes out top again
South Africa’s unique tourism attractions and innovative operators continue to
garner global recognition.
The Garden Route was recently named as one of the 10 best walking routes
in the world by The Telegraph, an influential newspaper in the United Kingdom.
Children in the Wilderness (CITW), a non-profit organisation that arranges bush
and wildlife experiences for young people to inspire Africa’s future environmental
leaders, was a runner-up in the United Nations World Tourism Organisation’s
(UNWTO) awards for sustainable tourism in Madrid recently.
The Telegraph said the trails of the Garden Route tour covered some of the
best coastal trails, forests and gorges in South Africa. The16-day trip starts from Table Mountain and includes the Alexandria
Trail and the Addo Elephant National Park.
The inclusion of the Garden Route in the top 10 list puts it on par with well-known walking routes in Italy, France and Costa
Rica.
The UNWTO Awards are the flagship awards for the global tourism sector. The award for sustainable tourism honours
people and organisations who work for the benefit of host communities and protect their country’s environmental and cultural
heritage for future generations.
CITW was named as second runner-up for Innovation in Non-Governmental Organisations. CITW takes the novel approach
of hosting camps and establishing eco-clubs for children and adults, and aims to develop future leaders who have a sound
understanding of the links between conservation, tourism and community development.
 #a good story to tell
106 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue11
 #a good story to tell
SAA introduces flights to Abuja
South African Airways (SAA) has introduced flights to Abuja as a second gateway
to Nigeria.
The flight departed on Tuesday, 26, January, at 11:55 pm from Johannesburg
(via Lagos) and landed at 7:30 am in Abuja. The aircraft was greeted with a
traditional celebratory and welcoming water salute as it taxied into the Nnamdi
Azikiwe International Airport.
SAA’s introduction of a second entry point in Nigeria, besides the long-
established daily flights to Lagos, forms part of the airline’s Long-Term
Turnaround Strategy.
SAA said a second gateway to Nigeria strengthened the company’s position in West Africa, where it played a significant
role in enabling the movement of goods and people between southern and West Africa.
The three weekly non-stop flights between Johannesburg and Abuja operate with modern Airbus 330-200 aircraft, offering
SAA business class luxury and economy class comfort, with the latest in-flight entertainment content.
News24.com
JSE opening office in Cape Town
The JSE recently announced that it was opening a new office in Cape Town.
The JSE said the new office in the city would enhance its service to clients,
build and strengthen relationships and provide accessible support to the
market.
According to the JSE, this is because Cape Town is becoming an
increasingly important hub of South Africa’s financial services industry. “Cape Town is a major centre for global and local
institutional investors as well as listed companies. Being the second-largest economic hub of South Africa, the head office
base of many institutional clients and an increasing number of member firms and brokers, an office in the city is a logical part
of the JSE’s client strategy,” explained capital markets director, Donna Oosthuyse.
In the new office, the JSE will be represented by senior capital markets specialist, Maryke Vreulink. It will be used for all
JSE-related activities and events held in Cape Town.
Fin24

107
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURE#A GOOD STORY TO TELL
107Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Dunkin’ Donuts to open over 250 stores In SA
America’s Dunkin’ Brands Inc has signed a franchise agreement with Grand
Parade Investments (GPI) Ltd to open more than 250 Dunkin’ Donuts and more
than 70 Baskin-Robbins food shops in South Africa, focusing on Cape Town and
Johannesburg.
The leading United States brand also said it would launch Baskin-Robbins ice
creams at South African supermarket chains and convenience stores.
“As we continue our global expansion of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins,
we are delighted to work with GPI to bring both brands to South Africa,” Bill
Mitchell, President, Dunkin’ Brands International, said in a statement.
“GPI has a wealth of experience in the local restaurant and retail industry, and a strong focus on operational excellence.
“We look forward to supporting GPI in their efforts to make Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins available to a growing number
of customers in South Africa in the years ahead.”
Africa News Agency
SA receives ALMA Award for curbing malaria
South Africa was awarded the 2016 African Leaders Malaria Alliance (ALMA) Award
for achieving the Malaria Millennium Development Goal target.
The award was presented and received by President Jacob Zuma during the
ALMA meeting for heads of state and government of the African Union at the end
of January.
In South Africa, malaria cases have decreased by 82% with deaths also
decreasing by 71%, since the year 2000 to date.
The decrease in malaria cases is attributed to a sound malaria vector control programme, where the country has used
dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane or DDT odourless insecticide for indoor residual spraying, coupled with other World Health
Organisation-recommended interventions.
“We are honoured to receive this 2016 ALMA Award, which recognises the efforts that our programme in South Africa has made,
not only in the past decade, but also investments we have made to fight malaria since the 1940s,” said President Zuma.
President Zuma also noted that while South Africa was delighted at the country’s successes, government would not be
complacent in tackling the disease.
“In this regard, we have committed to eliminate the disease from within our borders. We are also working with our neighbouring
countries to also fight the disease in our neighbourhood,” said President Zuma.
More people visit South Africa over festive season
The 2015/16 festive season recorded a 5,3% increase in traveller movement
compared to 2014/15, the Minister of Home Affairs, Malusi Gigaba, said recently.
“From 1 December 2015 to 7 January 2016, a total number of 5 390 856
travellers went through our borders, much higher than the total earlier reported
for 1 December 2015 to 3 January 2016, that is, 4 798 183,” said the minister at
a media briefing on 12 January.
He said 1 487 148 of the total were South African citizens, and 3 903 708 were
foreign nationals.
“There were 2 003 509 arrivals of foreigners and 706 365 arrivals of citizens,
bringing total arrivals to 2 709 874,” said the minister. The increase in volumes in terms of arrivals was 7,6% for foreigners and
0,3% for citizens.
There was also an increase of 4,9% in travellers from Africa, 6,1% from Europe, 7,8% from North America, 15% from Asia, 2,5%
from Australasia, 21% from the Middle East, and a decrease of 1% in arrivals from South America.
Gigaba said the top nationalities arriving in South Africa over this period were from Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Swaziland,
Botswana, United Kingdom, Germany, United States of America and Namibia.
Of the 2 680 982 departures, foreigners accounted for 1 900 199 and South African citizens numbered 780 783.
www.southafrica.info

108
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE #A GOOD STORY TO TELL
Cape Town hotel makes Telegraph’s Elite Top 50 List
The luxurious boutique hotel Ellerman House, overlooking Bantry
Bay in Cape Town, has joined 49 illustrious other hotels around
the world in the latest “50 Greatest Hotels” named by the British
Telegraph newspaper.
The Telegraph noted in its introduction that many great hotels in
the world did not make the list, showing how “fabulous” the properties
were that its numerous panelists had chosen.
The three other hotels in sub-Saharan Africa that made the list
were designed, owned or managed by South Africans. They are
Wilderness Safaris’ North Island in Seychelles, Mnemba Island
Lodge belonging to andBeyond in Tanzania, and Singita’s Sasakwa Lodge near the Serengeti, also in Tanzania.
The Telegraph said about Ellerman: “Perched high above the Atlantic, in a 1,5-acre terraced garden carved out of the
Bantry Bay cliffs, Ellerman House enjoys perhaps the most spectacular location in Cape Town, a city not short on views.
 “With just 13 rooms and suites sharing the sprawling grounds, and outsiders welcomed by prior arrangement or guest
invitation only, Ellerman House is also the most private hotel in the city, a secluded retreat with the kind of hushed atmosphere
that suits the many regular visitors who treat it as their Cape Town home.
“Urbane owner Paul Harris is also one of the foremost collectors of South African art: every wall here is testament to his
great eye and deep pockets. Even Harris’ enormous wine collection, displayed in an innovative ‘wine gallery’ and described
by many as a work of art in its own right, is – along with the 24-hour guest pantry (chock-full with delectable home-baked
savoury and sweet treats), sumptuous rooms, Cape Riviera views and intuitive service – part of the sum that sets this house
apart.”
sapeople.com
Table Mountain welcomes its 25-millionth visitor
Early in February, Joburg visitor Bafana Sibanyoni was announced
the 25-millionth person to visit Cape Town’s natural wonder of the
world, Table Mountain, with the latest million achieved in just one
year and two weeks.
Bafana Sibanyoni (28) thought a first-ever trip up Table Mountain
would be the ideal way to celebrate his partner, Mbali Ntanzi’s, 26th
birthday, but the couple had no idea that their Cableway experience
was about to reach entirely new commemorative heights.
The couple was delighted to learn they had won a luxury weekend
in the Mother City, announced by the Cableway staff in proudly South African fashion.
For being the 25-millionth and 25-millionth + 1 visitors, the two were rewarded with a weekend stay at the Taj Cape Town
Hotel; two more complemenatry Cableway tickets; a Cableway hamper, including Shop at the Top merchandise and a Table
Mountain Cafe voucher, as well as vouchers for experiences at the Cableway’s fellow Cape Town Big 7 partners: V&A
Waterfront, Kirstenbosch National Botantical Garden, Groot Constantia and Cape Point.
The growth of the Cableway has been exponential since the introduction of the new revolving cabins – doubling its 1997
numbers to reach 22 million visitors in November 2012.
Table Mountain Aerial Cableway had a record December with 28% more visitors than in December 2014, reportedly
because the weather was extremely favourable and they were open every single day in December.
From among a league of extraordinary attractions, Table Mountain was named a New7Wonder of Nature in 2012, adding
to record growth in tourism numbers as the “wonder effect” took hold and visitors flocked to the mountain.
Traveller24
Northern Cape named as Top World Region to Visit In 2016
The Northern Cape is gathering some well-deserved attention from
the rest of the world. Rough Guides has listed this border-lying
province of South Africa as one of the top 10 regions to visit in 2016.
Topping the likes of Italy and Indonesia, Rough Guides describes
the Northern Cape as “an area covering one-third of the country’s
landmass and seldom explored by visitors”.
They also mentioned the area’s super-gorgeous wildflowers in
springtime, the Kalahari’s famous black-maned lion, the San people
– remnants of the oldest population on Earth – the lush and flowing
Orange River and Richtersveld Nature Reserve for adrenaline junky-
fun.
Traveller24
108 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue11

109
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURE#A GOOD STORY TO TELL
Market Theatre celebrates 40th anniversary
On 9 February, the Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, delivered
an address to kick-start the first in a series of milestones marking the 40th
anniversary of the Market Theatre. Minister Mthethwa spoke, preceding
the opening performance of the first production for the year, A Raisin in
the Sun, written by Lorraine Hansberry, directed by James Ngcobo and
presented in association with the United States Embassy.
Established within weeks of the 1976 Soweto Uprising, the Market
Theatre came to symbolise the struggle for freedom. During the dark days
of the apartheid regime, the theatre represented a ray of hope and the microcosm of what South Africa could, and finally
did, become. It was the creative crucible for indigenous South African work and artists. For nearly two decades, the Market
Theatre was a beacon of light that brought the story of South Africa to world stages and won many accolades for its courage,
commitment and artistic integrity. Fearless in its stance, the Market Theatre stood for democratic principles, freedom of choice,
dignity and self-esteem and gave a vitally important voice to the black community. Today, it is still viewed as a “theatre of the
people”.
The Market Theatre has won 296 national and 39 international theatre awards for the artistic quality of the work it produces
and the calibre of the writers, directors, actors and lighting, set and costume designers it engages with.
As part of the 40th anniversary milestone of South Africa’s most iconic theatre, the Market Theatre has lined up several key
productions that will be staged throughout the year.
Three CapeNature reserves given eco thumbs up from Australia
South Africa’s Kogelberg, Robberg and Goukamma CapeNature
reserves have become the first tourism products in South Africa and the
Southern African Development Community to have been awarded the
prestigious ECO Certification by Ecotourism Australia.
CEO of CapeNature, Dr Razeena Omar, explained that the award
was a huge honour to CapeNature, ecotourism and sustainability within
South Africa.
Ecotourism Australia is represented in southern Africa through an
exclusive agreement with Eco-tourism Africa, a COMET Corporation
initiative.
The ECO Certification Programme was developed to address genuine nature and ecotourism operators – guided by the
Global Sustainable Tourism Council criteria.
The ECO Certification Programme provides travellers with the assurance that all certified products within the awarded
areas are supported by strong, well-managed sustainable practices and high-quality nature-based tourism. ECO Certification
is product-specific and the following CapeNature products have been certified:
• Goukamma Nature Reserve for its self-catering accommodation
• Kogelberg Nature Reserve for the Oudebosch self-catering accommodation, its hiking trails and birdwatching available
at the Stony Point penguin colony
• Robberg Nature Reserve for its array of hiking trails.
Chief Executive of Ecotourism Australia, Rod Hillman, commended CapeNature for being responsible members of South
Africa’s tourism industry to benefit the community and environment “while providing enjoyable and meaningful experiences
for their visitors”.
“I commend your leadership in becoming the first organisation in South Africa to gain eco-certification.”
Traveller24
E-commerce spend on SA phones to jump 70%
E-commerce spending by South Africans via their mobile devices is set to grow by 70% in 2016, says a survey.
The survey reported that South African shoppers spent R28,8 billion online in 2015, which was expected to grow to
R46 billion by 2017, of which mobile would account for R19 billion.
According to research organisation Ipsos, this figure is set to outpace overall e-commerce spend in South Africa, which is
forecast to grow by 29% this year.
E-commerce spending via mobiles accounted for 25% or R7 billion of all online transactions in 2015, said Efi Dahan who is
the Africa and Israel regional director for PayPal. Payment service Paypal commissioned the Ipsos survey.
“There is no doubt that the rapid penetration of smartphones in South Africa will continue to be the driving force of online
shopping in the upcoming years.”
Most South African online shoppers (59%) buy locally, with 37% buying both local and cross-border and 5% buying
exclusively from international providers.
news24.com
109Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

110
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE #A GOOD STORY TO TELL
Google Play Movies goes live in SA
Search giant Google has recently switched on its movie
service in South Africa, months after launching its music
offering locally.
Dubbed Google Play Movies, the service enables users
to rent or buy movies such as Jurassic World, Fifty Shades
of Grey and The Lego Movie. Television shows are not
available on Google Play in South Africa yet. Neighbouring
African countries Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia are
among places that also have Google Play Movies now.
The launch of Google Play Movies in South Africa comes hot on the heels of the search giant launching its music
streaming offering in December last year.
Google’s push to enter South Africa’s video-on-demand space further comes after United States-based Netflix launched
in the country in January.
news24.com
Black Mambas raise funds for rhinos in England
Two members of the all-female rhino-saving brigade from South
Africa, the Black Mambas, who have been publicised around the
world, were in England recently to raise awareness and funds for
their campaign.
The team was one of the winners last year of the United
Nations’ Champions of the Earth Award for its anti-poaching
work.
They also recently launched the Bush Babies education
outreach project, bringing wildlife education to local schools.
The Black Mamba Anti-Poaching Unit (APU) was founded in
2013 by Transfrontier Africa and created to protect the Olifants
West Region of Balule Nature Reserve and has since expanded to cover the entire Balule area of 400 km².
The Black Mamba APU is the first of its kind, being that the majority of the teams are women. There are currently 26
deployed Black Mambas and a further 23 armed guards who operate within Balule and along its boundaries.
www.sapeople.com / www.blackmambas.org
Luxury Rovos Rail at the forefront of private train travel
The luxury South African train company Rovos Rail – which has long been running neck and neck with the Blue Train in
pampered rail travel – has bought the “three-star” Shongololo Express, a 19-coach train that has been running a select
number of two-week tours across the country. For a fraction of the cost of Rovos’ classy trips, travellers can get similar
Rovos attention.
It puts South Africa at the forefront of some of the best private train travel in the world.
“Operating a three-star train had always been at the back of my mind. When I learned that the Shongololo Express was on
offer, the timing seemed serendipitous and so an opportunity not to be missed”, Rohan Vos, owner and CEO of the Rovos
Rail Group, said in a statement recently.
Vos said the train had been repainted in green and cream – the Rovos colours – and an additional dining car and an
observation car added. The six Emerald suites (about 10 square metres each) and 30 Gold cabins (seven square metres)
will remain as is and all the Shongololo’s current staff will also remain employed on the train. The three tours follow much the
same as the ones that were already being offered, but have been slightly repurposed, according to the statement. The tours
are Southern Cross (Pretoria to Victoria Falls, 12 days), Dune Express (Pretoria to Swakopmund, 12 days) and Good-Hope
Golf (Pretoria to Cape Town, 15 days).
www.sapeople.com
110 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue11
Four SA lodges listed as global winners in luxury hotel awards
The Ninth Annual World Luxury Hotel Awards, hosted at the Harbour Grand
Hong Kong at the end of last year, listed four South African lodges as global
winners.
South Africa’s safari and bush offerings were awarded top laurels.
The following establishments won global recognition:
• Global Winner: Luxury Bush Lodge -  Rhulani Safari Lodge
• Global Winner: Luxury Game Lodge - Emdoneni Lodge
• Global Winner: Luxury Safari Retreat - Nkorho Bush Lodge
• Global Winner: Luxury Eco Safari Resort - Gondwana Game Reserve.
The Overall Winner at the event was awarded to the Hotel Plaza Athénée, a luxury five-star hotel overlooking the Eiffel
Tower in Paris, the French capital.
Traveller24

111
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
FEATURE#A GOOD STORY TO TELL
Camp’s Bay among world’s best beaches
One of the Mother City’s most loved beaches has once again claimed global
laurels.
Camp’s Bay beach has been named the 17th-most amazing beach on the
globe by the reviewers’ platform TripAdvisor, in their Top 25 Beaches in the
World survey.  Apart from Camp’s Bay, Cape Town and the whole of South
Africa for that matter, are littered with some of the most incredible beaches.
South Africa occupies the southern tip of Africa, which mean a large chunk
of the country’s border is coast. The coastline stretches more than 2 500 km
from the desert border with Namibia on the Atlantic coast southwards around
the tip of Africa and then north to the border with Mozambique on the Indian Ocean.
Traveller24
Cape Town coffee spot trumps world’s brews – Again!
Cape Town has been crowned the coffee capital of the world once again as
the iconic Truth Coffee Roasting was named the very best coffee shop in
the world for the second year running by acclaimed United Kingdom news
agency, The Telegraph.
The steampunk coffee and roasting franchise, with its flagship shop in
Buitenkant street, Cape Town, has been ranked top spot by The Telegraph
because of their “steampunk-inspired artisan coffee”.
The list of 13 international spots includes the likes of Café Central in
Austria, Workshop Coffee in London, Coffee Academics in Hong Kong, with
South Africa’s very own steampunk-themed Truth Coffee Roasting sitting proudly in the number-one spot.
Traveller24
New York Met and Paris Opera sign up South Africa’s Pretty Yende for
more
Pretty Yende, South Africa’s incredible opera singer, has both New York and
Paris clamouring for more.
Both the Metropolitan Opera House in New York and the National Opera
de Paris have announced Yende’s return to their stages in their 2016/17
line-ups.
According to Yende’s Facebook page, “it is with great excitement to
announce Ms Yende’s return to The Metropolitan Opera House in New York
for two opera productions as the Primadonna”.
After making her debut at New York’s world-famous Met three years ago, she will return in the 2016/17 season as Rosina
in Rossini’s Il Barbiere di Siviglia.
Earlier this year, she performed this role at the National Opera de Paris (Opera Bastille) in France to critical acclaim, with
her performance being described as “absolument exceptionnelle” (absolutely exceptional).
In New York, she will join one of the most internationally celebrated Bel canto tenors Javier Camarena and Peter Mattei
in the title role. According to the post on Facebook, Pretty will also play Juliette in Gounod’s “lush Shakespeare adaptation
of the tragic love story. This will mark Ms Yende’s debut on the role”.
Yende will also appear in the 50th Anniversary Gala for Metropolitan Opera joining all the international opera stars.
The Opera National de Paris also announced recently that Yende would return to the Opera Bastille in their 2016/17
season in the title role of Lucia di Lammermoor by Donizetti. This will mark her second production of Lucia after her great
success in the role at the Dutch National Opera in Berlin.
Jamie’s Italian expands to South Africa
Jamie Oliver’s successful restaurant chain, Jamie’s Italian, is heading to South Africa. It will add a Joburg branch in Melrose
Arch to its already expansive global reach. There are 40 establishments across the world; the first opened its doors in the
British university town of Oxford in 2008.
The restaurant is all about authenticity. Oliver has worked closely with his friend and mentor, Gennaro Contaldo, to create
the essence of Jamie’s Italian – “tradition combined with current, innovative ideas and a Jamie twist”.
“Being awarded the Jamie’s Italian franchise is such a privilege,” Stephen Gersowsky, chief executive of Whisky Creek
Brands told lifestyle website, Destiny Connect. “We all understand the responsibility that comes with representing this
iconic brand in South Africa, and we believe our passion, commitment, integrity and dedication to the industry will lay a
solid foundation for us to deliver on the expectation that comes with launching Jamie’s Italian.”
www.southafrica.info
111Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

112
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
FEATURE #A GOOD STORY TO TELL
SA film wins award in Berlin
South African film notched up another accolade as Anant Singh’s Shepherds and
Butchers won an award at the Berlin Film festival recently.
The film, produced by Singh and directed by Oliver Schmitz, was awarded the third
place Panorama Audience Award for Fiction Films – a first for a South African film.
Based on Chris Marnewick’s book of the same name, the film revolves around a
young warden, arrested after killing seven black members of a karate team, and the
jaded lawyer who takes on the murder case.
The film competed in a pool of 51 submissions from 33 countries in the Panorama
Section of the festival.
Commenting on the award, Singh said: “We are overwhelmed by this
acknowledgement for our homegrown South African film, which competed with the
best in the world.  It is a testament to the amazing talent we assembled for the film,
and this enabled us to successfully compete in the international arena.”
Shepherds and Butchers stars newcomer, Garion Dowds as well as a number of
well-known South African actors, including Deon Lotz, Robert Hobbs, Eduan van
Jaarsveldt and Marcel van Heerden alongside Steve Coogan (Philomena) and Andrea Riseborough (Birdman, Oblivion).
The film also features the song Angels, a collaboration between Barry Gibb, co-founder of the Bee Gees, and Vusi
Mahlasela.
Times Media Group
Decrease in infant mortality in South Africa
There has been a marked decrease in child mortality rates in South Africa, according
to the Institute of Race Relations (IRR), which says this is indicative of improved child
health in the country.
The IRR made this finding in its latest South Africa Survey, published in February
2016. It found that the under-five mortality rate had declined from 77,2 deaths per
1 000 live births in 2002 to 45,1 deaths per 1 000 live births deaths in 2015. The
institute also found that deaths of infants under one year of age declined from
51,2 deaths per 1 000 live births in 2002 to 34,4 deaths per 1 000 live births in 2015.
According to the IRR, poor access to healthcare services, especially immunisation
programmes; malnutrition; and poor living conditions were three of the leading
contributors to child deaths.
It found that:
• Immunisation rates had steadily increased in South Africa. In 2001, 67% of children under one year of age were
immunised. This increased to 89,8% in 2014.
• Social grant beneficiaries as a percentage of the total national population increased from 9% in 2001 to 30% in
2015. This had undoubtedly contributed to raising living standards.
• From 2001 to 2014, severe malnutrition rates among under-fives dropped from 12,5 per 1 000 children to 4,5 per
1 000 children.
The South Africa Survey has been published annually by the IRR since 1948 in the interests of advancing fact-based
policy-making.
Institute of Race Relations
Maties Prof. elected to UN Committee
A Stellenbosch University professor has been elected to serve on the United Nations (UN)
Committee on Economic‚ Social and Cultural Rights. Sandra Liebenberg‚ who occupies the HF
Oppenheimer chair in Rights Law in the university's law faculty‚ was nominated by the Department
of International Relations and Cooperation in recognition of her “extensive experience in human
rights law‚ particularly in the area of economic‚ social and cultural rights”.
The UN Economic and Social Council elected Liebenberg and the Egyptian candidate,
Mohamed Ezzeldin Abdel-Moneim, as candidates representing Africa. Their four-year term
begins on 1 January 2017.
The Committee on Economic‚ Social and Cultural Rights is a mechanism for defending
and promoting economic‚ social and cultural rights‚ and has a mandate to specifically monitor
fulfilment of states' obligations under the International Covenant on Economic‚ Social and Cultural Rights. It is composed
of 18 independent experts.
Liebenberg is academic co-director of the law faculty's postgraduate Socio-Economic Rights and Administrative Justice
Research Project. She previously served as a member of the technical committee advising the Constitutional Assembly
on the Bill of Rights.
www.timeslive.com
112 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue11

113
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
113Issue 10 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU  113Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

114
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
The Best of Wine Tourism Awards celebrate
innovation and excellence in wine tourism
throughout the eight greatest wine regions in
the world.
SA wine estates
sparkle
The Best of Wine Tourism Awards celebrate
innovation and excellence in wine tourism
throughout the eight greatest wine regions in
the world.
SA wine estates
sparkle
The Best of Wine Tourism Awards celebrate
innovation and excellence in wine tourism
throughout the eight greatest wine regions in
the world.
SA wine estates
sparkle

115
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU

116
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
D
elaire Graff Estate, situated
in the Helshoogte Pass just
outside Stellenbosch in the
Cape Winelands, has been
announced as the overall
winner at the 2016 Great
Wine Capitals Global Network Best of Wine
Tourism Awards.
The estate took the 2016 global laurels
after taking the top spot in both the Art and
Culture and Wine Tourism Restaurants
categories.
The Great Wine Capitals is a network of
eight major global cities in both the northern
and southern hemispheres, which share
a key economic and cultural asset: their
internationally renowned wine regions.
The wine regions of the world are the Cape
Winelands, Cape Town; Bilbao in Spain;
Bordeaux in France; Mendoza in Argentina;
Porto in Portugal; Valparaiso or Casablanca
Valley in Chile; Napa Valley in San Francisco,
United States of America; and Rheinhessen
in Mainz, Germany. The Best of Wine Tourism
Awards celebrate innovation and excellence
in wine tourism throughout the eight greatest
wine regions in the world.
It is the only such network to encompass
the so-called “old” and “new” worlds of wine,
and it aims to encourage travel, education
and business exchanges between the
prestigious eight wine regions.
This international competition is designed
to reward businesses in each member
region that have distinguished themselves in
terms of the excellence of their facilities and
delivering quality experiences to visitors in
various categories.
Awards are given in the following seven
categories:
• Accommodation
• Wine Tourism Restaurants
• Sustainable Wine Tourism Practices
• Architecture and Landscape
• Art and Culture
• Innovative Wine Tourism Experiences
• Wine Tourism Services.
According to the Great Wine Capitals Global
Network website, the Delaire Graff Estate is
a most aesthetically interesting contemporary
LIFESTYLE SA WINE ESTATES SPARKLE

117
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
art destination. “The art collection has been
a lifelong passion of owner Laurence Graff
OBE, who continues to discover promising
South African artists.
“The stunning interiors at the estate have
been designed around some of the private
works on display and incorporate the rich
natural and cultural heritage of the winelands,
resulting in a beautiful synergy of art and
space.
"South Africa’s diverse heritage is reflected
in the art at Delaire Graff Estate: Lionel’s
Smit’s African Woman in the Tasting Lounge
echoes the subtle palette of the natural
hues used in the sophisticated setting, while
signature Dylan Lewis cheetahs grace the
estate’s landscape.
"Works by Vladimir Tretchikoff, Deborah
Bell, Sidney Kumalo, Fred Schimmel, Durant
Sihlali and Cecil Skotnes adorn the walls,
while guests at the lodge will particularly
enjoy Stephane Graff and the intensity of
Ndkumbule Ngqinambi’s work.
“Guided tours are available and guests
can explore the incredible contemporary
collection for themselves throughout the
estate as the pieces are incorporated into
the gardens, restaurants, accommodation
and winery, transforming Delaire Graff
Estate into an unrivalled artistic and cultural
experience.”
In the regional leg of the 2016
Great Wine Capitals Global Network Best of
Wine Tourism Awards, the following Cape
wineland establishments were also
awarded:
• Villiera Wines for Sustainable
Wine Tourism Practices
• La Motte Wine Estate for
Wine Tourism Service
• Cavalli Wine and Stud
Farm for Architecture and
Landscapes
• Boschendal Estate for
Accommodation.
Innovation was particularly lauded at
this year’s competition, with wineries
clearly responding to the challenge of
higher expectations from tourists.
Traveller24 / www.greatwinecapitals.com
LIFESTYLESA WINE ESTATES SPARKLE

118
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
SA fishing town among
World Responsible
Tourism Awards winners
Founded in 2004 by Responsible Travel, the World Responsible
Tourism Awards at the World Tourism Market are a global search and
celebration of the most inspiring and enduring responsible tourism
experiences in the world.

119
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Gansbaai, Western Cape

120
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
T
he Western Cape fishing town
and popular tourist destination,
Gansbaai, received a gold Best
Destination honour at the 2015
World Responsible Tourism
Awards, held in London in
November 2015. The South African-based
charity, Campaign against Canned Hunting,
also took joint gold in the Best Animal Welfare
Initiative category. Bushmans Kloof received a
silver Best Cultural Heritage Attraction Award
while Grootbos Private Nature Reserve got a
silver Best for Poverty Reduction Award.
The award ceremony was part of the annual
World Tourism Market (WTM).
Founded in 2004 by Responsible Travel,
the World Responsible Tourism Awards at the
WTM are a global search and celebration of
the most inspiring and enduring responsible
tourism experiences in the world.
The vision of the awards, which are open to
any organisation anywhere in the world, is to
surprise and inspire tourists and the tourism
industry by what it is possible to achieve with
responsible tourism, and to shine a light on
the best of the best.
The Best Destination for Responsible
Tourism category is awarded to a holiday
destination setting an inspirational and
influential example for responsible tourism.
“Our award-winning places, products and
programmes demonstrate the leadership
role South Africa is playing in developing and
implementing responsible tourism,” said the
Minister of Tourism, Derek Hanekom.
“The winners of the WTM awards, and
others in the sector who are striving towards
greater sustainability, are maintaining our
country’s competitive edge in the global
tourism market.
“Tourists are becoming increasingly concerned
about social and environmental issues, and they
want to support destinations and products that
take responsible tourism seriously
.”
"Their success comes from taking a
responsible approach right from the start of
their planning, and then ensuring that all their
products, services and activities are socially,
environmentally and economically sustainable
into the future.
“We must now spread these world-leading
responsible tourism practices throughout
the entire tourism industry,” said Minister
Hanekom.
“Tourists are becoming increasingly
concerned about social and environmental
issues, and they want to support destinations
and products that take responsible tourism
seriously.”
WTM sources senior influential figures
from in and around the travel industry to
offer invaluable insights and knowledge
through the WTM Conference and Seminar
Programme.
The World Responsible Tourism
Awards has various categories for Poverty
Reduction; Best Animal Welfare Initiative;
Best Innovation for Carbon Reduction; Best
for Beach Tourism; Best Hotel for Local
Sourcing; Best Cultural Heritage Attraction;
Best for Engaging People and Culture; Best
Accommodation for Disability Access; Best
Destination for Responsible Tourism; Best
for Wildlife Conservation; Best Sea or River
Cruise; Best Responsible Tourism Blog;  and
People’s Choice in Responsible Tourism.
LooLa Adventure Resort in Indonesia was
announced as overall winner of the World
Responsible Tourism Awards 2015.

121
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
LIFESTYLESA FISHING TOWN AMONG WORLD RESPONSIBLE TOURISM AWARDS WINNERS
Grootbos Private Nature Reserve
Bushmans Kloof

122
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
LIFESTYLE WHY MILLIONS CHOSE AFRICA AS THEIR SAFARI DESTINATION
Why millions chose Africa
as their safari destination
The tourism industry is one of the most important
for the continent: it provided 12,8 million people
with jobs, directly and indirectly, in 2011
. Tourism in
2012 contributed over US$36 billion or 2,8% of the
continent’s gross domestic product
.
By Marco Scholtz
Senior Lecturer in Tourism at Tourism Research in Economic Environs and Society,
North-West University
122 UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
M
ore than 30 million
tourists visit Africa every
year. Over half of the
international arrivals are
for business purposes,
and may partake in
tourist activities as well, while 15% travel for
pure tourism and 30% visit friends and family.
Tourists select the continent as a
destination for wildlife viewing and to enjoy
the sunny skies. Africa is the world’s number
one destination for safaris, which range from
the exotic to the very simple.
The tourism industry is one of the most
important for the continent: it provided
12,8 million people with jobs, directly and
indirectly, in 2011. Tourism in 2012 contributed
over US$36 billion or 2,8% of the continent’s
gross domestic product.
The continent’s vast and diverse nature
makes it complex and difficult to decide on the
best region for a safari. But the east, central
and southern parts of the continent are by far
the preferred choices. These areas generally
have well-developed or fast-developing
tourism sectors. There is an abundance of
wildlife as well as low to no visa requirements.
Tourists to these regions mostly come from
countries like France, the United Kingdom,
the United States of America, Germany and
Portugal.
Below is a quick guide to some of the safari
hot spots on the African continent.
East Africa
East African countries are strongly reliant on
the tourism industry for generating income.
Strong improvements in marketing and
cooperation between these nations will help
to ensure the success of this vital tourism
sector.
Standardised criteria for hotels, restaurants
and other services across these countries
will make it easier for tourists to find suitable
services. These countries possess various
natural and cultural resources that make
tourism possible.

123
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
The Serengeti wildebeest migration is the main
reason Kenya and Tanzania have become
popular safari destinations. This migration
sees millions of wildebeest, accompanied by
various other animal species, move between
Tanzania and Kenya. The best places to view
this migration include Kenya’s Maasai Mara
and Tanzania’s Serengeti National Park.
And while in the area, don’t forget to visit
Africa’s highest mountain – Mount Kilimanjaro
in Tanzania’s Kilimanjaro National Park.
The Ngorongoro Crater Conservation Area
is also a great choice with an abundance of
Big Five – the African elephant, African lion,
white/black rhinoceros, African leopard and
the Cape buffalo – and will not disappoint.
Central Africa
Civil wars and terrorist groups have made it
dangerous to travel to some countries in this
region. Many tourists still take their chances,
though, as Central Africa is an area of
immense natural beauty.
The Central African Republic, the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)
and Rwanda are great places to view the
endangered mountain gorillas. The best
places for viewing them include the Virunga
National Park in the eastern DRC, Mgahinga
Gorilla National Park in south-west Uganda,
or Volcanoes National Park in north-west
Rwanda. Various factors have threatened
the population of gorillas, including poaching,
habitat loss, disease, war, unrest and poverty.
Today, due to conservation efforts, the
population of mountain gorillas is showing
steady growth. The fact that many tourists
want to get up close to these animals also
drives conservation efforts, since with tourism
comes economic improvement.
If you’d prefer to take part in Africa’s best
on-foot chimpanzee encounters, visit Kibale
Forest in Uganda.
Southern Africa
South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe,
Zambia and Malawi offer very diverse wildlife.
This is because of the variety of biomes in the
region.
Chobe National Park is home to the biggest
concentration of elephants in the world –
70 000 of them. It lies between the Chobe
River and the Okavango Delta in the north-
eastern parts of Botswana. Also in Botswana,
the Moremi Game Reserve in the iconic
Okovango Delta, is the first reserve in Africa
to be established by local residents.
The Etosha National Park in the northern
arid region of Namibia offers great chances of
spotting endangered black rhinoceros as well
as flamingos in the salt pans.
The Kruger National Park in South Africa is
in its own league because of its diversity of
animals as well as advanced environmental
management techniques and policies.
iSimangaliso Wetland Park was the first site
in South Africa to be awarded World Heritage
Site status.
It contains most of South Africa’s remaining
swamp forests and is Africa’s largest estuarine
system, which is a partially enclosed body
of water where fresh water from rivers and
streams mix with salt water from the ocean.
The park borders Kosi Bay and St Lucia
Lake, which is the only place in the world
where you can find sharks, hippopotamus and
crocodiles in the same body of water.
Addo Elephant National Park in the Eastern
Cape province is the only park where you
can find the Big Seven: the African elephant,
Cape buffalo, African lion, African leopard,
African rhino as well as whales and Great
White sharks.
The Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park consists
of mostly unspoiled wilderness in the north of
South Africa, crossing over into Botswana.
This park is largely located in a desert area
and is famous for animal species such as the
Kalahari black-maned lions and the Gemsbok
or Oryx.

The article was first published on The Conversation
(http://theconversation.com)
123Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
LIFESTYLEWHY MILLIONS CHOSE AFRICA AS THEIR SAFARI DESTINATION

124
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
ADVERTORIAL WONDERBOOM AIRPORT PROUDLY SERVICES COMMUNITIES

125
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Wonderboom Airport
proudly services
communities
WONDERBOOM AIRPORT PROUDLY SERVICES COMMUNITIES ADVERTORIAL

126
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
W
onderboom Airport in
the north of Pretoria
is constantly
improving itself in
order to benefit
its customers.
It recently introduced daily return flights
between Pretoria and Cape Town, South
Africa’s two historic capital cities. While
celebrating its 80th year of existence this
year, it is continuously upgrading its facilities
and enhancing services for the convenience
of its customers.
The airport is conveniently located in the
north of Pretoria in an uncongested area
between major highways.
 Airlink links two historically significant
cities. Tshwane is host to many diplomatic
communities and is second only to Washington
DC in the United States of America in its
number of foreign embassies. Its fast growth
into the largest metropolis in South Africa in
terms of land mass has increased the need
for regular flights to connect it to the mother
city and legislative capital of South Africa,
Cape Town. The current daily Airlink return
flights between the two cities take place in
partnership with South African Airways.
In addition to passenger services, Airlink
also offers express air cargo services
between these two cities and beyond.
Increased passenger numbers will
eventually ensure a selection of commercial
flights and more routes in the near future.
Other envisaged future developments include
the enhancement of general aviation and
chartered private flights. Furthermore, the
envisaged reinstatement of its international
status will enable Wonderboom Airport to
service the domestic market and the regional
market of Africa.
Wonderboom Airport is a medium-sized
airport with a single terminal building that
provides quick and easy access to its
effective and convenient facilities. It is a fully
functional airport and hosts more than 184
businesses on its premises, including a Villa
San Giovanni restaurant and hotel.
The City of Tshwane Metropolitan
Municipality is the licence holder of the airport.
Historic overview
The history of Wonderboom Airport can be
traced as far back as 1937 when the erstwhile
City Council established and opened a new
airfield on a 342-hectare site on the farm
Wonderboom, 11 kilometres north of the
city centre. The airfield was then known as
the Pretoria North Airfield, and the name
Wonderboom Airport only came into use in
1940.
To celebrate its 80th anniversary,
Wonderboom Airport is planning an air and
car show for 11 and 12 June 2016. It will be
called the Wonderboom Airport Adrenaline
Show, and it promises to bring excitement and
fun to communities in Tshwane and beyond.
Named after the magnificent indigenous fig
tree that has been standing in the vicinity for
more than 1 200 years, Wonderboom Airport
has a rich history. Although it had humble
beginnings and development took time, over
the years the airport has hosted several
unique and first-ever events that placed it
firmly on the radar. The following events are
a few of those that made the airport known for
its uniqueness and excellent services:
• the first transatlantic flight in a two-
seater aircraft by two locals (1955)
• the first South African Parachuting
Championships (1964)
• the first three-man star parachute
jump (1968)
• the first five-star parachute jump
record (1970)
• South Africa’s first black parachute
jumper, Flocks Manceba (1974)
• the christening of the Delaney aircraft,
named after the first baby to be born
on board a scheduled flight (1975)
• tandem-rig parachuting with  then
Miss World, Anneline Kriel (1986).
Why use Wonderboom Airport? Here are a
few reasons:
Wonderboom Airport in the north of Pretoria is
constantly improving itself in order to benefit its
customers
.
ADVERTORIAL WONDERBOOM AIRPORT PROUDLY SERVICES COMMUNITIES

127
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
• It is conveniently located in the
north of Tshwane in an uncongested
area: The airport is only 11 km from
the city centre, which means that
customers are only a few kilometres
away from world-class hospitals,
universities, research centres,
business sectors, industrial hubs,
government departments, major
tourist destinations and many more
amenities and institutions.
• It is easily accessible for locals as
well as visitors from other provinces:
It is close to the N1 that leads to
Polokwane in the north and the
N4 (Bakwena Highway) that leads
to Rustenburg in North West and
Emalahleni in Mpumalanga.
• It is constantly upgraded and services
are continuously improved: The City
of Tshwane, in collaboration with
stakeholders, constantly upgrades
infrastructure in the area to the benefit
of customers. The envisaged K97 link
(to be opened soon) between the N4
and the airport will add value on a
regional scale, linking Tshwane with
North West, Limpopo and others.
• It saves you travel time: A test run
revealed that the time it takes a
traveller to drive from the east of
Tshwane to OR Thambo International
Airport, find parking, check in and
move to the aircraft, is the same time
that it will take the same traveller
to drive from the same area to the
Wonderboom area, park the car,
check in and land in Cape Town!
• Its staff members ignite excellence in
their services: Wonderboom Airport
is an easy-in, easy-out airport.
All staff are continuously trained
to be time-efficient and effective.
The end result is good customer
service and a pleasant flying
experience. It is a place where the
customer is king and is treated with
dignity and respect.
• It lies in the middle of a fast-growing
industrial and tourism hub. The airport
is surrounded by a range of historical
sites and tourism hot spots that
include the following:
• The majestic Magaliesberg,
a declared World Biosphere
Reserve, which is 100 times older
than Mount Everest and one of
the longest mountain ranges in
South Africa
• The Wonderboom, a magnificent
wild fig tree which is about 1 200
years old
• Tswaing Crater, a conservation
area that is home to a meteorite
impact crater and surrounding
wetland
• Dinokeng, Tshwane’s alternative
to the Kruger National Park
• Cullinan, a quaint little town where
the world’s biggest diamond was
discovered
• many more interesting places.
CONTACT INFORMATION
FOR RESERVATIONS
Tel: +27 011 978 1111
Website:  www.flyairlink.com
GENERAL ENQUIRIES
Tel: +27 012 567 1188/9
Website:  www.tshwane.gov.za or
 www.wonderboomairport.co.za
TOURISM ENQUIRIES
Tel: +27 012 567 1188/9 X 120
Website:  www.tshwane.gov.za or
 www.wonderboomairport.co.za
WONDERBOOM AIRPORT ADRENALINE
SHOW (AIR AND CAR SHOW)
Tel: +27 (0) 83 251 4573
Email: Christian@adrenalineshow.co.za
Website:  www.adrenalineshow.co.za
WONDERBOOM AIRPORT PROUDLY SERVICES COMMUNITIES ADVERTORIAL

128
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
S
outh African artist Mbongeni
Buthelezi recycles plastic
litter, adds some heat and
melts it all on to his canvas
to create some of the most
audacious pieces of art.
A regular exhibitor on the local and
international art scenes for almost 20 years,
he has been hailed as one of South Africa’s
most innovative artists.
“I (use rubbish to) create something
beautiful from it. I collect something that has
no value and give it new life. That’s what we
can do with ourselves and our lives,” is how
Creating beauty
out of waste
Buthelezi has been a regular and popular exhibitor
on the South African art circuit for years, and
has garnered positive attention from international
galleries and art schools
.
Buthelezi introduces himself on his website
portfolio, and for years he’s made a name for
himself as one of South Africa’s boldest and
most original artists.
He chose to work with plastic during his art
school days as a way to draw attention to the
medium and as a way to stand out in the often
crowded local art scene. The combination of
the tangible method of sculpting plastic on
to canvas was also a way for him to work
through his creative process.
Buthelezi has garnered positive attention
from international galleries and art schools.
Art lovers are intrigued by his use of discarded
LIFESTYLE
CREATING BEAUTY OUT OF WASTE

129
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
LIFESTYLECREATING BEAUTY OUT OF WASTE
Art lovers are intrigued by his use of discarded
consumer plastic in crafting vibrant and
engrossing African story-portraits. In these
works, he makes bold statements about the
world as he sees it, addressing social and
environmental issues.
consumer plastic in crafting vibrant and
engrossing African story-portraits. In these
works, he makes bold statements about the
world as he sees it, addressing social and
environmental issues.
In 2010, the Live Out Loud  website said
Buthelezi’s work “reflects humanity’s often
detrimental impact on the environment, but
his original use of discarded objects to depict
an often forgotten group of people truly sets
him apart”.
His artistic process involves melting down
strips of coloured plastic on to the canvas
surface, itself often also made from plastic. He
understates the creation process as simple
and haphazard, but the final Pollockesque
pieces speak for themselves, enjoyable and
provocative on all levels, from all distances.
Buthelezi may be the only artist – that he
knows of – who works in this medium, but he
appreciates this singularity as it doesn’t give
him an outside point of reference that may
hinder his originality.
Yet, he still believes the melted plastic
method is a way to make art creation easily
available to anyone who wants to experiment,
but who may not be able to access or afford
traditional art materials. “(Anyone) can gather
waste plastic and start painting,” he says,
“and construct something out of nothing”.
When it comes to appreciating the
role art has played in his life, Buthelezi is
philosophical, seeing himself as “a mirror
for the society I live in, and I want to make a
meaningful impact on that society”.
In addition to being recognised with a
number of local art awards during his career,
including semi-finalist in the 2007 Sasol
Wax Art Awards, Buthelezi has also won a
Visi Design Award and a Mail & Guardian
Green Trust Award for “commitment and
contributions to the environment (with)
social conscience and creativity”.
Born in 1965 in Johannesburg,
Buthelezi is artist-in-residence at the Omni
International Arts Centre in New York City
and for the South African National Arts
Festival.
He has exhibited in Germany, the
United States of America and the
Netherlands, and has been commissioned
to make exclusive works by companies
such as Mercedes Benz South Africa and
the Daimler Art Collection in Stuttgart,
Germany.
www.mediaclubsouthafrica.com

130
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
Swan Lake:
South African adaptation
enthralling the world
A
fter wowing South African
audiences in 2010, Dada
Masilo’s Swan Lake is
enthralling the rest of the
world. Combining traditional
ballet with African dance, the
performance has been described as fresh,
upbeat, innovative and diverse. It sensitively
deals with issues such as homophobia and
apartheid’s legacy. A troupe of South African
ballet dancers has given a local twist to the
Swan Lake story. It was commissioned by,
and premièred at the National Arts Festival
in South Africa in 2010. Now, the 13-strong
dance company is touring the rest of the
world, captivating audiences.
Choreographed by Dada Masilo, the ballet
combines classical movements with African
dance. In Masilo’s take, Prince Siegfried
doesn’t fall in love with Odette, who is under
a sorcerer’s curse and transforms into a white
swan at sunrise every day. He falls for a male
black swan, Odile, an attraction that has fatal
consequences.
“Homophobia, forced marriages, the legacy
of apartheid and the ravages of AIDS are
evoked with humour, sensitivity and lucid
intelligence in a vigorous work of astounding
beauty,” reads the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
website.
Masilo studied at the Performing Arts
Research and Training Studios (Parts) in
Brussels from 2005 to 2006. She also trained
at the Dance Factory in Johannesburg and
established her reputation as one of South
Africa’s most renowned choreographers.
Masilo’s Swan Lake is currently touring the
United States of America, after touring the
United Kingdom, to rave reviews.
“Dada Masilo’s new version stands apart
from so many others not only for the fresh and
fast-paced style that comes with the addition
of African dance, comic theatre and carnival,
but for her wit and seriousness in handling the
original ballet’s themes.” – Judith Mackrell,
The Guardian.
“The ballet boasts incredible energy,
attitude, innovation and diversity rarely seen
in a typical ballet, all without sacrificing an
engaging story and superb technique.
"One can’t help but offer a standing
ovation to the bravery and ingenuity of a
true artist and her incredible team." – Olga
El, Broadway World. Its politics are simple
– against homophobia – and its manner is
friendly, even near the start, when it makes
fun of ballet conventions with broad narration
about 'surplus girls in the moonlight'." – Brian
Seibert, New York Times.
“Masilo’s brilliance lies in her ability to
effortlessly weave the threads of so many
themes – gender politics, art and artifice, the
universality of the broken heart — into such
strong and vibrant cloth.” – Natasha Gauthier,
Ottawa Citizen.
Source: Media Club South Africa
LIFESTYLE SWAN LAKE: SOUTH AFRICAN ADAPTATION ENTHRALLING THE WORLD
Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063 is gaining momentum. It is time for action.
Be part of the transformation!
Our Aspirations for the Africa We Want
A prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development
An integrated continent, politically united, and based on the ideals of Pan Africanism
An Africa of good governance, respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law
A peaceful and secure Africa
An Africa with a strong cultural identity, Common Heritage, values and ethics
An Africa whose development is people-driven, relying on the potential offered by
African People, particularly its women and youth, and with well cared for children
Africa as a strong, united and influential global player and partner
Twitter: @_AfricanUnion, #Agenda2063          Facebook: AfricanUnionCommission          Website: www.agenda2063.au.int
Email: agenda2063@africa-union.org         Tel: +251 115 513 822         Fax: +251 115 519 321        Address: African Union Commission
P . O. Box 3243          Roosevelt Street          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The Africa We Want single pg spread Ubuntu.indd   1 5/8/15   4:53 PM

131
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063 is gaining momentum. It is time for action.
Be part of the transformation!
Our Aspirations for the Africa We Want
A prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development
An integrated continent, politically united, and based on the ideals of Pan Africanism
An Africa of good governance, respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law
A peaceful and secure Africa
An Africa with a strong cultural identity, Common Heritage, values and ethics
An Africa whose development is people-driven, relying on the potential offered by
African People, particularly its women and youth, and with well cared for children
Africa as a strong, united and influential global player and partner
Twitter: @_AfricanUnion, #Agenda2063          Facebook: AfricanUnionCommission          Website: www.agenda2063.au.int
Email: agenda2063@africa-union.org         Tel: +251 115 513 822         Fax: +251 115 519 321        Address: African Union Commission
P . O. Box 3243          Roosevelt Street          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The Africa We Want single pg spread Ubuntu.indd   1 5/8/15   4:53 PM
Agenda 2063
Agenda 2063 is gaining momentum. It is time for action.
Be part of the transformation!
Our Aspirations for the Africa We Want
A prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development
An integrated continent, politically united, and based on the ideals of Pan Africanism
An Africa of good governance, respect for human rights, justice and the rule of law
A peaceful and secure Africa
An Africa with a strong cultural identity, Common Heritage, values and ethics
An Africa whose development is people-driven, relying on the potential offered by
African People, particularly its women and youth, and with well cared for children
Africa as a strong, united and influential global player and partner
Twitter: @_AfricanUnion, #Agenda2063          Facebook: AfricanUnionCommission          Website: www.agenda2063.au.int
Email: agenda2063@africa-union.org         Tel: +251 115 513 822         Fax: +251 115 519 321        Address: African Union Commission
P . O. Box 3243          Roosevelt Street          Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
The Africa We Want single pg spread Ubuntu.indd   1 5/8/15   4:53 PM

132
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
O
ld and new musical
worlds, jazz and hip-hop
came together in Songs
from Jazztown, a musical
tribute to South Africa’s
iconic jazz artists.
Directed by James Ngcobo, Songs
from Jazztown ran from 17 November to
20 December 2015 at Joburg’s Market
Theatre.
Brand South Africa partnered with the
Market Theatre for this production to highlight
the role of South African music in building
the country’s nation brand, and encourage
young citizens to play their part and honing
their artistic skills. According to the Market
Theatre website, the production premiered in
LIFESTYLE
SOUTH AFRICAN RIEL DANCERS SHINE ABROAD
From the earliest colonial days until now, South
African music has been created out of the
mingling of local ideas and forms with those
from outside the country, giving it all a special
twist that gives it the unmistakable South African
flavour
.
South African classic    jazz revitalised

133
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
the Eastern Cape in 2014 with support from
the Department of Arts and Culture’s Touring
Venture Fund. “It received a great reception
by tapping into the old sound that was such a
hit in the 50s.”
The show was refreshed with hip-hop
artists narrating the story, encouraging
younger audiences to experience classic jazz
music in a reinvigorated format.
Some of the legendary musicians featured
in this end-of-year musical celebration
included jazz greats Dolly Rathebe, Miriam
Makeba, Gibson Kente and many more.
“We wanted to immerse ourselves in the
beautifully haunting sounds they orchestrated
and to say we remember them and their
contribution to the South African songbook,”
said Ngcobo.  “In musical departments around
the country, young people sit in lecture rooms
and witness the brilliance of these composers,
which is why we also want to give these young
singers that we have cast a chance to sing the
songs of yesteryear.
“We are making theatre in South Africa
and that means we have a deep well that we
drink from, which inspires us to forge new and
exciting narratives.”  Performing these classic
numbers were Asanda Bam, making her
debut at the Market Theatre, as well as Gugu
Shezi, Tshepiso Mashego and Nomfundo
Dlamini.
The story of South African music is one of
dialogue with imported forms, and varying
degrees of hybridisation over the years. From
the earliest colonial days until now, South
African music has been created out of the
mingling of local ideas and forms with those
from outside the country, giving it all a special
twist that gives it the unmistakable South
African flavour.
In the 1950s, the old strains of marabi
and kwela had begun to coalesce into what
is broadly referred to as mbaqanga, a mode
of African-inflected jazz that had various
practitioners. Singing stars such as Makeba,
Rathebe and Letta Mbulu gained fanatical
followings.
It was also a time for the first meaningful
cultural and social interactions between
various race groups in South Africa.
www.southafrica.info

134
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
The Soil rocks Santiago
during WOMAD festival
S
outh Africa’s acapella
group, The Soil, gave an
outstanding performance
when the trio (Buhlebendalo
Mda and biological brothers,
Luphinda and Ntsika
Ngxanga) took the stage at the three-day
WOMAD (World of Music, Arts and Dance)
music festival in Santiago, Chile, from 12 to
14 February 2016.
WOMAD was founded in 1980 by, among
others, English rock legend Peter Gabriel.
In general, musical groups from different
countries and continents are invited to perform
in one venue with a view to utilising the power
of music to foster love, unity, understanding
and tolerance in the world. As and when
sponsorship is secured, the festival is taken
to different parts of the world.
The first WOMAD festival was in Shepton
Mallet, United Kingdom, in 1982 where the
audience saw, among others, Peter Gabriel,
Don Cherry, The Beat, Drummers of Burundi,
Echo & The Bunnymen, Imrat Khan, Prince
Nico Mbarga, Simple Minds, Suns of Arqa,
The Chieftains and Ekome performing. Since
By Mvuyo Mhangwane
Counsellor – Political, South African Embassy, Santiago de Chile
1982, WOMAD festivals have travelled all
over the world, bringing artists to numerous
locations and entertaining over one million
people.
In Santiago, WOMAD 2016 featured 22
artists from 15 different countries. Apart from
Chile and South Africa, other artists were
drawn from countries such as Mali, Nigeria,
Tanzania, Canada, Russia, Spain, Poland,
Belarus, Palestine, Argentine, Brazil and
Columbia. This is the second successive
time that Chile hosted WOMAD and in both
cases there has been a South African group
featured. The legendary Mahotela Queens
performed in 2015. Commenting about the
group’s invitation to WOMAD 2016, Luphinda,
said: “We are honoured to be part of this great
WOMAD festival which is great testimony to
the universal power of music. We are grateful
that the organisers and the audience were so
impressed by the performance of Mahotela
Queens in 2015 that they decided to include
another South African group in this formidable
universal line-up.” Buhle added that they
would ensure that they “hoist the country’s
flag, and indeed that of the continent, high”.
And hoist it very high they indeed did with
aplomb. It was heartening to observe the
largely Spanish-speaking audience who did
not understand most of the songs, which are
in indigenous South African languages and
English, making an effort to enthusiastically
sing along when asked to. The group also
received a positive response whenever they
asked the audience to join them in doing
some South African dance moves.
After the performance, Ntsika assured the
South Africans who met them back stage that
the group would definitely return to Chile in a
year or so and perform in different parts of the
country. He summed up the trio’s (heartfelt)
view when he said: “We were overwhelmed
by the warmth of the Chilean people and
zealous response to our music. We feel we
owe them a longer tour, especially given the
positive reviews that we got about other South
African groups that performed in the country
in 2015 – Mahotela Queens and Soweto
Gospel Choir”.
For those of us who are South Africans
based in Chile, we can only say, Bring it on
and Thatha “The Soil” Thatha!
.
LIFESTYLE THE SOIL ROCKS SANTIAGO DURING WOMAD FESTIVAL

135
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU
OUR PARTNERS:
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE
FRICA
AFRICA’S LARGEST AIR, SEA AND LAND EXHIBITION
14
National Pavillions
Aerospace & Defence
Exhibition in Africa
450
Expected exhibitors from
30 Countries
30 000
THE LARGEST
Expected Trade Visitors
from 86 Countries
323
Expected Accredited Journalists
from all over the world
46 000 sqm
Exhibition space
OVER 100
DELEGATION PROFILE
Expected Civil & Military
Ministers
Secretaries for Defence
Chiefs of Armed Forces
Chiefs of Armies
Chiefs of Air Forces
Chiefs of Navies
Acquisition and Procurement Officials
Aircrafts on Static Display
90 000
Expected General
Pubic Visitors
2016
AT A GLANCE
ARE YOU IN ?
AFRICA’S TIME IS NOW!
UNLOCKING AFRICA’S AEROSPACE AND DEFENCE POTENTIAL
CENTURION, PRETORIA

136
UBUNTU South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action Issue 11
This year marks the 40th anniversary of the Soweto Uprising on 16 June 1976. The day is
commemorated annually in South Arica as Youth Day. On 16 June 1976, more than 15 000
students gathered at Orlando West Secondary School with the intention of participating in a
peaceful march to the nearby Orlando Stadium. The demonstration was planned in protest
against the use of Afrikaans as the medium of instruction at schools. However, the police and
armed forces responded to the protest violently and the first fatality of the day was Hector
Pieterson, a 12-year-old pupil who was shot by the police. It is believed that 175 others were
also killed that day. This violent backlash to what was meant to be a peaceful march caught the
attention of the international community. After this event, many countries imposed sanctions on
South Africa in an attempt to force the apartheid government to ease its repressive rule.

137
Issue 11 South Africa’s Public Diplomacy in action UBUNTU