seed_url: https://www.foreign.go.tz/uploads/1120JS-EN_-_final_clear_version_JOINT_STATEMENT_TAZARA.pdf
final_url: https://www.foreign.go.tz/uploads/1120JS-EN_-_final_clear_version_JOINT_STATEMENT_TAZARA.pdf
title: 1120JS-EN_-_final_clear_version_JOINT_STATEMENT_TAZARA.pdf
date: 
via: requests-binary
http_status: 200
content_type: application/pdf
note: pdf_extracted

1
Joint Statement by the Governments of the People’s Republic of China,
The United Republic of Tanzania and the Republic of Zambia
On Jointly Building the TAZARA Railway Prosperity Belt
Under the strategic leadership of President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic
of China, President Samia Suluhu Hassan of the United Republic of Tanzania
and President Hakainde Hichilema of the Republic of Zambia, the revitalization
project of the TAZARA Railway has been launched on November 20, 2025.
The groundbreaking ceremony was attended by H.E. Hakainde Hichilema,
President of the Republic of Zambia, H.E. Li Qiang, Premier of the State
Council of the People’s Republic of China, and H.E. Amb. Dr. Emmanuel John
Nchimbi, Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania, in Lusaka,
Zambia.
To ensure that the TAZARA Railway will deliver greater and more lasting
benefits to Tanzania, Zambia and the neighboring African countries, the
governments of the People’s Republic of China, the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Republic of Zambia agree to join hands to advance
modernization that is just and equitable, open and win-win, eco-friendly,
people-centered, featuring diversity and inclusiveness, and underpinned by
peace and security, and promote the building of the TAZARA Railway
Prosperity Belt (hereinafter referred to as “the Prosperity Belt”), to help advance
the development of Tanzania, Zambia and China, explore the potential for
regional development, and set a model for high-quality Belt and Road
cooperation between China and Africa.
The three parties commit to synergize the outcomes of the Forum on
China-Africa Cooperation Beijing Summit 2024 as well as the Initiative on
Supporting Africa’s Industrialization, the Plan for China Supporting Africa’s
Agricultural Modernization and the Plan for China-Africa Cooperation on

2
Talent Development proposed by President Xi Jinping with Tanzania’s
Development Vision 2050, Zambia’s Eighth National Development Plan
(2022-2026), Agenda 2063 of the African Union, and the United Nations 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, and aspire for the following:
First, building a railway of freedom. The three parties fully recognize the
historical and symbolic significance of the TAZARA Railway. Constructed
during the struggles for the liberation of Southern African countries, it is not
merely an infrastructure project. It represents the spirit and broader aspiration of
China, Tanzania and Zambia for independence, sovereignty and economic
prosperity. It remains a significant symbol of friendship and cooperation
between the peoples of Tanzania, Zambia and China. Facing transformation
unseen in a century, the three parties will carry forward the TAZARA spirit,
uphold the principle of mutual respect, equal consultations, and joint
contribution for shared benefit, and work together to build the Prosperity Belt
for the modernization of the three countries and the wider region.
Second, building a railway of development. The three parties are ready to
harness their respective comparative advantages to promote economic
cooperation and undertake coordinated efforts with a focus on the TAZARA
Railway in connection to other regional corridors. Efforts will be made to
explore the integration of infrastructure, and establish intermodal transportation
corridors that would facilitate intra-Africa trade. The three parties support the
implementation of China’s zero-tariff measures for 100 percent tariff lines for
African countries having diplomatic relations with China, encourage localized
production and processing to expand export of high-quality products to China
and other markets, and will strive to enhance cooperation in the investment
sector. The three parties will, subject to separate arrangements promote the
development of existing industrial parks along and around the Railway, and plan
and build special economic zones, so as to achieve collaborative development
and boost the realization of industrialization and agricultural modernization of
Tanzania and Zambia.
Third, building a railway of friendship and partnership. The three parties,
while developing the Prosperity Belt, will exchange experience on governance
and development for modernization, and facilitate promotion of the rich cultural

3
and touristic resources for better global understanding of the diverse
civilizations along the Belt.
Fourth, building a railway for people’s welfare. The TAZARA Railway
belongs to the people of Tanzania and Zambia. but it also benefits people of
the wider region. Throughout the construction of the Prosperity Belt, a
people-centered approach will be adopted. The three parties will carry out active
cooperation on human resources training and capacity building with a view to
helping local youth and women improve their vocational skills and
employability and cultivating more high-quality professionals in support of the
Prosperity Belt. The three parties are ready to work together to implement
livelihood projects that improve the social economic well-being of the people.
Fifth, building a railway of green development. The three parties will
integrate the concept of green development into the creation of the Prosperity
Belt, enhance ecological and environmental protection along the route. The
three parties will make efforts to strengthen cooperation in green industry,
e-commerce and payment, science and technology, artificial intelligence and
other key areas, and strengthen cooperation on standardization, so as to promote
the high-quality and sustainable development of the Prosperity Belt.
Sixth, building a railway of regional harmony. The three parties remain
committed to the vision of a common, comprehensive, cooperative and
sustainable security endeavor aiming to build an efficient framework of lasting
peace and security. The operation of the TAZARA Railway will serve as a
prime example of a stable and modernized infrastructure project, fostering
mutual prosperity, stability, peace and regional harmony. To this end, the three
parties will remain steadfast in supporting efforts aimed at addressing peace and
security concerns in the region.
To achieve the six above-mentioned aspirations, the three parties will adhere to
the “government-led, market-oriented, business-based and broadly participated”
principle, fully leverage on the role of financial institutions, think tanks and
specialized institutions, and encourage and support innovative cooperation
models to promote integrated development along the Prosperity Belt. The three
parties will enhance policy communication and coordination bilaterally or

4
trilaterally through diplomatic channels, continue to optimize the business and
investment environment, while encouraging their respective businesses to
respect the local laws and regulations, customs and procedures, and fulfill the
respective social responsibilities. The three parties welcome the participation of
neighbouring countries as well as other international and regional partners, in
the development of the Prosperity Belt to jointly promote regional integration
and development.