seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/4315
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/4315
title: Leaders of Uzbekistan and China Hold A Telephone Conversation
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Leaders of Uzbekistan and China Hold A Telephone Conversation
29.04.2021
Today, on April 29, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev had a telephone conversation with the President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
At the beginning of the conversation, the Presidents exchanged warm congratulations and best wishes on the upcoming important anniversaries: this year, the PRC widely celebrates the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, and our country celebrates the 30th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Uzbekistan. The leaders wished peace, well-being and prosperity to the friendly peoples of two countries.
During the conversation, the topical issues of the bilateral and international agenda were discussed.
The high level of the Uzbek-Chinese relations of friendship and comprehensive strategic partnership achieved in recent years, as well as the dynamic development of the multifaceted cooperation between our countries were noted with deep satisfaction.
The President of the People’s Republic of China has highly appreciated and fully supported the socio-economic reforms and transformations being carried out in Uzbekistan aimed at improving the standards of living and quality of life of the population in the country. An agreement was reached to continue the close interactions on an in-depth study of China’s vast experience in poverty alleviation.
The President has sincerely thanked the Leader of the PRC for practical assistance in combating the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.
The authorized bodies and organizations of Uzbekistan and China will expand the mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of healthcare, deepen joint effective work on mass vaccination of the population.
The President of Uzbekistan has reaffirmed his unwavering support for the «One China» policy and the opposition to the «three forces of evil» - terrorism, extremism and separatism.
The ongoing productive dialogue in the framework of the One Belt, One Road initiative was noted, including on the promotion of important infrastructure projects in the region, including the PRC-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan road and railways. The proposal of the Uzbek side to strengthen the connectivity of Central and South Asia was supported.
The leaders dwelled on the issues of expanding the trade, economic, investment and financial cooperation.
It was emphasized that in challenging conditions, it was possible to minimize the negative consequences of the pandemic and ensure an increase in mutual trade by 33% since the beginning of this year. The implementation of important joint programs and projects continues. Both countries are making good headway towards achieving $10 billion in trade in the coming years, as well as balancing exports and imports. Uzbekistan will actively participate in the next International Chinese Exhibition of Imported Goods in Shanghai.
The Presidents spoke in favor of strengthening cooperation between the high-profile enterprises of Uzbekistan and China in various sectors of the economy, as well as mutual assistance in promoting projects in high-tech sectors of the economy. The preparation and adoption of a joint medium-term program of full-scale trade, economic and investment cooperation was agreed.
The current level of productive partnership of the high-profile banking and financial institutions of our country with the State Development Bank and the Eximbank of China, the Silk Road Fund, as well as in the framework of international financial organizations was highly appreciated.
The leaders instructed to strengthen the activities of the Uzbek-Chinese Intergovernmental Committee and hold its next meeting in the near future.
A special attention was paid to the continuation of inter-parliamentary ties, the resumption of intensive exchanges between the regions of the two countries, as well as the expansion of the cooperation program in the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
The conversation also saw an exchange of views on the issues of the international agenda and regional cooperation, including on the China – Central Asia format.
The issues of deepening the multilateral relations and practical interaction in the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, as well as holding a summit of this organization in our country were discussed. The important role of the current SCO Contact Group in promoting the peace process and economic reconstruction in Afghanistan was noted.
The leaders reviewed the schedule of upcoming events at the highest level and stressed the importance of thorough preparation of the planned visit of the President of the PRC to the Republic of Uzbekistan as an important historical event in the development of full-fledged relationships, strengthening the centuries-old ties of strong friendship and relations of comprehensive strategic partnership.
The telephone conversation between the Presidents of Uzbekistan and the PRC took place in a traditionally open, friendly and trustworthy atmosphere.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: