seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6770
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6770
title: Uzbek and Chinese Leaders Discuss Further Strengthening of Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Uzbek and Chinese Leaders Discuss Further Strengthening of Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
17.10.2023
On October 17, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev held talks with the President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
Current issues of further strengthening friendship and comprehensive strategic partnership between Uzbekistan and China were discussed.
At the outset of the meeting, the President of Uzbekistan expressed sincere gratitude to the Leader of China for the invitation and the warm welcome.
The Head of Uzbekistan cordially congratulated the Chinese President on the National Day of China and the tenth anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative.
“In a short historical period, the Belt and Road Initiative has become a sought-after, inclusive, open platform for interaction to achieve shared progress and prosperity. It is deeply symbolic that the initiative of the President of the People’s Republic of China “Green Silk Road” was first announced in 2016 in Uzbekistan”, the Uzbek Leader said.
It was emphasized that Uzbekistan is committed to further deepening its multifaceted relations with China.
A five-year Program on Developing Comprehensive Strategic Partnerships in a New Era is being implemented.
The consistent implementation of agreements reached during the state visit of the President of Uzbekistan to China in May this year, strengthening political dialogue and mutual support on key issues, were noted with particular satisfaction.
Trade, economic, and investment cooperation is developing dynamically.
In recent years, the volume of Chinese investment has increased fivefold, and the number of companies has tripled. Since the beginning of this year, mutual trade volumes have increased by 36%. This figure is expected to exceed $10 billion by the end of the year.
Mutual agreement was expressed that there is every reason to increase trade turnover to $20 billion in the next five years.
With the participation of Chinese companies and financial institutions, several large investment projects are being implemented in high technology, alternative energy, chemistry, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, electrical engineering, infrastructure modernization, and other areas.
Interest was expressed in expanding the portfolio of high-tech projects through the joint organization of the production of innovative products with high-added value.
The achieved level of productive partnership with leading Chinese banks and the Silk Road Fund was highly assessed.
An intensification of interregional contacts has been noted.
Since the beginning of the year, delegations from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, Shaanxi, Shandong, Jiangsu, and Jiangxi provinces have visited Uzbekistan.
A particular attention is paid to the fruitful exchange of experience and practical interaction in studying and implementing the Chinese experience in poverty reduction.
It was proposed to hold the next meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee to review the progress of implementation of all agreements.
The two countries’ leaders highly assessed the intense cooperation in culture, education, and tourism. Gratitude was expressed for the Chinese side’s support for the initiative to declare 2023 the “Year of Culture and Art of the Peoples of Central Asia and China”.
A presentation on Uzbekistan recently took place at the National Silk Museum in Hangzhou. Uzbekistan’s historical heritage was exhibited at the “Belt and Road” Cooperation in Cultural Heritage and Archaeology exhibition at the “Gugong” Palace Museum in Beijing.
At the end of October, the Chinese Culture Days are planned to be held in Uzbekistan. Next spring, Uzbekistan Culture Days will be held in China.
The growing interest in learning the Chinese language in Uzbekistan, especially among young people, was noted with satisfaction. The fruitful activities of the Confucius Institute in Tashkent and Samarkand significantly contribute to this. Plans to expand Chinese language teaching and exchange of young scholars are outlined.
The President of Uzbekistan proposed opening branches of leading Chinese universities – Tsinghua University and Peking University – in Tashkent.
Views were exchanged on current issues of the regional agenda and international politics.
The unwavering position on supporting the “One China” policy and combating the “three forces of evil” was confirmed.
An agreement was reached on adopting a road map to implement the proposed initiatives.
Following the talks, the Leader of Uzbekistan invited the President of the People’s Republic of China to visit Uzbekistan.
The meeting took place in a traditionally trusting, open, and friendly atmosphere.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: