seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/7726
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/7726
title: Every household and enterprise need to contribute to preserving nature
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Every household and enterprise need to contribute to preserving nature
23.11.2024
On November 23, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev planted a tree in a new garden being created within the framework of the nationwide project “Yashil Makon”.
Ecology has become the most urgent problem in our century. Air and water pollution, land degradation, desertification, global warming damage the natural balance and human health. Our country has realized the consequences of this problem in advance and started to take measures to protect the environment.
The nationwide project “Yashil Makon” initiated by the Head of our state three years ago has turned into a real people's movement. The tradition of planting trees every spring and fall is being revived.
The President is setting a personal example in this respect. In previous years, he planted saplings in New Tashkent, Sergeli and Chilanzar districts. This year, a green belt has been planted in the capital's Bektemir district along the Tashkent Ring Road.
For this purpose, 100 hectares of land have been allocated, 100 thousand saplings of trees and bushes will be planted in two years. Three artificial reservoirs and 12 wells have been created for their irrigation.
As is known, the “Yashil Makon” project aims to bring the level of greening of cities to 30 percent, in particular, to create green belts around them. This area along the ring road will become part of the Tashkent green belt. Another notable feature is that a natural forest ecosystem will be created here.
The Head of our state talked to representatives of the public and foreign diplomats and expressed gratitude for their contribution to this noble initiative.
This tradition is deeply rooted in our people. We call nature “mother”, treat the land and water with reverence. Today, against the background of urgent environmental problems, this truth becomes especially obvious. That is why the “Yashil Makon” project was initiated, and the next year was declared the year of environmental protection. Now it is important that these initiatives become widespread and deeply rooted, especially among the youth. Every family, every enterprise should contribute to nature preservation
, - emphasized Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
The event was watched by the community of the Republic of Karakalpakstan and regions via video link. Trees were also planted there. This fall season, 80 million saplings of trees and shrubs are expected to be planted under the “Yashil Makon” project.
In spring, 138 million saplings were planted. Ministries and khokimiyats have created 257 parks. Trees are also being planted around large industrial enterprises and landfills, and green belts are being created.
Almost 10 thousand residents and entrepreneurs have been allocated land adjacent to roads, railroads, rivers and canals for planting trees under lease agreements. Phased planting has begun for 215 projects recognized as winners of the “My Garden” project.
In general, 646 million saplings of trees and shrubs have been planted across the country over the past three years. In the Aral Sea region, the area of green plantings exceeded 2 million hectares.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: