seed_url: https://www.president.uz/en/lists/view/4733
final_url: https://www.president.uz/en/lists/view/4733
title: President of China Congratulates the President of Uzbekistan on a Decisive Victory at the Elections
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
President of China Congratulates the President of Uzbekistan on a Decisive Victory at the Elections
27.10.2021
On October 27, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev held a telephone conversation with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
At the beginning of the conversation, President of China has warmly congratulated our President on the successful conduct and resounding victory at the presidential elections in Uzbekistan.
It was emphasized that the results of the vote have once again demonstrated the broad support of the country’s population for the ongoing development strategy of the new Uzbekistan and the foreign policy course to strengthen the mutually beneficial cooperation with foreign partners.
The President of China sincerely wished a good luck and new successes to the President of Uzbekistan, along with well-being and prosperity to the friendly Uzbek people.
The heads of states considered the topical issues of further strengthening the Uzbek-Chinese relations of comprehensive strategic partnership.
The current level of trust-based dialogue, the progressive development of bilateral relations and the intensification of mutual exchanges in accordance with the agreements reached during the summit contacts in April this year are noted with great satisfaction.
In the political sphere, the President of Uzbekistan has expressed consistent support for the «One China policy» and resolute combat against the «three forces of evil» – terrorism, extremism and separatism.
In addition, a gratitude was expressed to the Chinese side for a big practical assistance in countering the coronavirus pandemic, including the timely deliveries and joint production of vaccines.
In turn, President Xi Jinping has stressed that China firmly supports the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Uzbekistan, as well as the ongoing program of socio-economic transformation in the country.
In the trade and economic sphere, the leaders noted a tangible increase in trade indicators. To promote the supply of in-demand products to the Chinese market, primarily agricultural goods, an agreement was reached on the active participation of Uzbekistan in the Fourth International Exhibition of Imported Goods to be be held in Shanghai in November this year.
A special attention is paid to the preparation of the five-year Program of Trade and Economic Cooperation, with inclusion of strategic projects, including in innovation, artificial intelligence, digital technologies and electronic commerce.
The exchange of experiences and knowledge in poverty reduction is identified as a key area of ​ ​ interaction. An important attention is paid to the practical implementation of the provisions of the Memorandum signed by the authorized departments of the two countries this month.
The heads of Uzbekistan and China advocated the development of a system of effective transport routes connecting China with our region and forming the Eurasian Transcontinental Transit Corridor as a part of the «Belt and Road» initiative.
The opportunities for expanding cooperation in science and education, healthcare and vaccination of the population, sports, tourism, culture and other areas were marked.
President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has sincerely wished his colleague and friendly people of China successful holding of the Beijing Winter Olympics in 2022.
It was agreed to hold the next meeting of the Uzbek-Chinese Intergovernmental Committee until the end of this year, as well as to draft a joint program to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations.
The President of Uzbekistan and the President of China also exchanged views on the international agenda and issues of regional cooperation.
President Shavkat Mirziyoyev supported the Global Development Initiative put forward by the leader of China at the United Nations General Assembly.
In addition, the parties agreed to continue a close dialogue within the framework of the World Health Organization and other UN institutions.
The Chinese leader expressed full support for the chairmanship of our country in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The Presidents also considered the establishment of lasting peace and economic development in Afghanistan. They have agreed to continue the dialogue as a part of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other formats in order to assist the Afghan people.
At the end of the conversation, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev and President Xi Jinping warmly exchanged wishes for peace, prosperity and progress between the two friendly peoples and countries.
The conversation was held in a traditionally open, trusting and friendly atmosphere.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: