seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/486
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/486
title: Shavkat Mirziyoyev arrives in Beijing
date: 13 May 2017
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Shavkat Mirziyoyev arrives in Beijing
11.05.2017
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev with spouse arrived May 11 in the People’s Republic of China on a state visit at the invitation of PRC President Xi Jinping.
State flags of the two countries were raised and a guard of honor was lined up at Beijing’s Shoudu international airport in honor of the leader of Uzbekistan.
The main events of the visit of the President of Uzbekistan scheduled for 12-13 May 2017.
The current state and prospects of bilateral relations, priority areas of consolidating and steady development of long-term partnership between Uzbekistan and the PRC will be discussed during the meetings with President of the PRC Xi Jinping, Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang, Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress Zhang Dejiang and other high-level officials. The parties will also exchange views on regional and international issues.
The agenda of the visit envisages a meeting of the Head of our state with representatives of leading Chinese companies and firms, in which the possibilities of joint realization of mutually beneficial projects in Uzbekistan through attracting modern technologies will be considered.
Following the negotiations at the highest level, the parties will adopt a Joint Declaration, sign several intergovernmental and other documents, aimed at deepening Uzbekistan-China ties in different spheres. Conclusion of a solid package of contracts and agreements between the business circles of the two countries in the trade-economic, investment and finance areas are expected within the visit.
On 14-15 May 2017, President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev will also take part at the ‘One Belt, One Road’ international forum in Beijing.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: