seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/2533
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/2533
title: Shavkat Mirziyoyev: Our peoples must in reality feel the effects of our joint efforts
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Shavkat Mirziyoyev: Our peoples must in reality feel the effects of our joint efforts
27.04.2019
The second “One Belt, One Road” international forum continued on April 27 at the Yanqi International Convention Center with a roundtable discussion by the heads of delegations.
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev delivered a speech at the event.
“International and regional connectivity and issues around it have always been pressing for Central Asia, including our country that has no direct access to seaports. Uzbekistan supported the Belt and Road initiative from the start, and its delivery is an important factor in the sustainable development of our countries,” Shavkat Mirziyoyev suggested.
The head of our state welcomed the adoption of the Joint Communiqué of the roundtable discussion and expressed confidence that promoting regional cooperation will actively contribute to the achievement of our common goals, will open up new sources of economic growth, and ultimately boost the living standards in the countries of the region.
The President put forward a number of initiatives to uplift the transport and logistics potential of Central Asia, provide for food security through green economy, shore up tourism, jointly address environmental problems and other pressing issues.
Shavkat Mirziyoyev stressed the significance of cashing in the transit potential of the Central Asian region and shaping an economic corridor China – Central Asia – West  Asia. Great prospects here open up with the launch of the motor passageway Tashkent – Andijan – Osh – Irkeshtam – Kashgar. The Uzbekistan – Kyrgyzstan – China and Mazar-i-Sharif – Kabul – Peshawar railway projects are of strategic importance. It also seems economically feasible to establish a through tariff for rail transportation along the route Ports of the Yellow Sea – Central Asia – Europe.
The Uzbek leader drew attention to the development of green economy and the introduction of cutting-edge technologies and advanced solutions aimed at achieving food security in agriculture.
Noting that overcoming the adverse environmental consequences of the desiccation of the Aral Sea is a common task, Shavkat Mirziyoyev invited parties to join in the activities of the Multi-Partner Trust Fund for the Aral Sea Region under the auspices of the United Nations, and also in creating a zone of environmental innovation and technology in the Aral region.
The head of our state voiced distinct proposals for promoting tourist exchange and contemplating joint programs and products under the brand “Silk Road”.
Uzbekistan’s President also expounded on Afghanistan. Shavkat Mirziyoyev noted in particular that the establishment of peace in that country would contribute not only to its economic recovery, but also help generate new sources of growth in Central and South Asia. The head of our state pointed out that these and other related issues will be discussed at the next Regional Economic Cooperation Conference on Afghanistan (RECCA) this fall in Tashkent.
“Our historical and cultural heritage, similarity of objectives and challenges we face as well as the unity of our aspirations allow us to look to the future with optimism. Ultimately, our peoples should truly feel the positive effects of our joint efforts,” Shavkat Mirziyoyev insisted.
The Uzbek President’s vision and initiatives received remarkable attention and interest among the audience.
The second Belt and Road international forum is due to end today.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: