seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6990
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6990
title: Uzbek and Chinese Leaders Discuss Further Expanding Multifaceted and Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Uzbek and Chinese Leaders Discuss Further Expanding Multifaceted and Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
24.01.2024
As part of the agenda of the state visit, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev and the President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping held talks in Beijing on January 24 with the participation of members of official delegations.
At the outset of the meeting, the President of our country expressed his sincere gratitude to the Chinese Leader for the invitation and warm welcome, as well as high assessment of the reforms in New Uzbekistan.
The Leaders noted a significant breakthrough in bilateral relations in recent years.
The increasing dynamics of contacts at all levels, strengthening of political dialogue, and mutual support on key issues were noted with particular satisfaction.
The first Foreign Ministers’ Strategic Dialogue was held in Beijing last November. Inter-parliamentary cooperation has intensified.
Our President thanked the Chinese Leader for his personal attention and support for cooperation on poverty reduction.
The two sides welcomeed the launch of a pilot project to introduce the Chinese system of vocational education in Uzbekistan – “Luban Workshop”.
Trade, economic, and investment cooperation is dynamically developing.
Last year’s trade turnover reached $14 billion. Both sides share the opinion that there are all possibilities to increase the trade turnover to $20 billion in the near future.
In recent years, the volume of Chinese investment in the Uzbek economy has increased fivefold and the number of joint ventures has tripled.
An agreement on preparation and adoption of cooperation programs in infrastructure development, industrial cooperation, technology transfer in agriculture and green energy was reached.
In this context, the sides noted with satisfaction the commissioning of two new 1000 megawatt solar power plants in Uzbekistan at the end of last year with the participation of Chinese companies.
The current level of fruitful financial and technical cooperation with leading Chinese banks and the Silk Road Fund, as well as the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank was highly assessed.
The Head of our state welcomed the agreements on the expansion of financial instruments to support investment projects, including the creation of a joint platform, as well as the decision of the Export-Import Bank of China to open a regional office for Central Asia in the city of Tashkent.
The President also encouraged Chinese partners to actively participate in the privatization processes of state-owned enterprises and banks in Uzbekistan.
The Leaders welcomed the intensification of interregional exchanges. They agreed to establish the Council of Regions of Uzbekistan and China to coordinate cooperation in this direction.
The importance of the early start of practical work on the construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, which is expected to become an important component of the Transcontinental Transport and Transit Bridge under the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, was emphasized.
The success of the first education forum in Beijing and the exhibition of Uzbekistan’s tourism prospects in Shanghai held on the eve of the event was noted. Residents and guests of the Chinese capital showed great interest in the events held as part of the Days of Uzbek Culture.
The sides pointed out the need to intensify cooperation in education and tourism, and continue the practice of holding mutual cultural days. A proposal was made to hold the first joint Youth Innovation Forum.
For the practical implementation of all planned activities and initiatives, the parties agreed to hold meetings of the Intergovernmental Committee and all subcommittees in the first half of this year.
The parties also exchanged views on topical issues of the regional agenda and international politics.
The unwavering position in support of the “One China” policy and the fight against the “three evil forces” was reaffirmed.
In conclusion, the Uzbek Leader invited the Chinese President to pay a visit to our country and congratulated the friendly people of China on the upcoming Chinese New Year - Chun Jie holiday.
The meeting was held in a traditionally trusting, open, and friendly atmosphere.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: