seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/7791
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/7791
title: Address by President Shavkat Mirziyoyev to the participants of the ceremony dedicated to the launch of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railroad construction project
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Address by President Shavkat Mirziyoyev to the participants of the ceremony dedicated to the launch of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railroad construction project
27.12.2024
Distinguished participants of the event!
I sincerely welcome you at the inauguration ceremony of construction of the new China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway.
The first-ever full-fledged Agreement on the implementation of this strategic trans-regional project was signed six months ago. The preparation of technical documentation has been completed in a short span of time. And today, we are launching relevant construction works.
This is a truly historic event, which marks the 30 years-long journey of our friendly countries.
A new transportation artery of international significance is being formed.
It will connect the Central Asian region with China through the shortest overland route and further expand multifaceted cooperation and strengthen the strategic partnership among our countries.
The project is also perfectly aligned with the goals of the Belt and Road Initiative, today uniting many countries of the world for the benefit of common sustainable development and prosperity.
In this regard, I would like to once again express my gratitude to my esteemed colleagues – Mr. Xi Jinping, the President of the People's Republic of China, and Mr. Sadyr Japarov, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, for their personal contribution and active efforts in promoting the project.
Dear participants of the ceremony!
I would like to underscore the great impact that the construction of the new railway will have on the economies of our countries and our vast region.
This major infrastructure project envisages extensive cooperation with cutting-edge engineering, innovative and digital solutions, while complying with high environmental standards.
A total of 20 stations, 42 bridges and 25 tunnels will be built along the Kashgar - Torugart - Makmal - Jalal-Abad - Andijan route.
In addition, state-of-the-art transit and logistics infrastructure, as well as warehouses and terminals will be developed.
It is estimated that the commissioning of this road will have a multiplier effect on regional trade and investment, significantly reduce transport costs and unlock the enormous transit potential of Central Asia.
I would like to point out a few more figures.
The annual freight traffic along the corridor will total 15 million tons.
The distance and delivery time of goods from China to European markets will reduce by several thousand kilometers and almost a week.
There will be an opportunity to organize regular passenger traffic services.
In the long run, interlinking of this railway with the Trans-Afghan corridor will effectively connect and strengthen the transport and communication interconnectivity of China, Central and South Asia.
Obviously, all our countries will feel the economic benefits. Hundreds of new enterprises and tens of thousands of jobs will be created.
And, certainly, this project will facilitate the revival of the Great Silk Road, the development of cultural and humanitarian exchanges, and further bringing of our peoples closer together.
Dear friends!
Uzbekistan is committed to active participation in all stages of the construction of the railway, making full use of all available technical and intellectual resources.
I am convinced that with joint efforts this transport corridor will become another symbol of our strong friendship, partnership and progress.
On the eve of the New Year, I wish every success to the engineers, construction workers, and all those involved in the implementation of this strategic project. Today your hands are building the shared future of our countries and our region.
Thank you for your attention.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: