seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6779
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6779
title: President of Uzbekistan Meets with Chairman of Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference National Committee
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
President of Uzbekistan Meets with Chairman of Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference National Committee
18.10.2023
As a part of working visit to China, the President of Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev met with the Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference National Committee Wang Huning.
The Chinese side expressed great appreciation for the important initiatives proposed by the Head of our State during the Third Belt and Road International Forum.
The sides discussed the prospects for further expanding and strengthening the Uzbek-Chinese friendship, as well as the multifaceted strategic partnership.
The current level of constructive political dialogue and mutual support within international organizations was particularly welcomed.
The agreements reached during the summits in Samarkand and Sian are being gradually implemented.
Trade, economic, and investment cooperation has a positive dynamic. Inter-regional contacts have been stepped up. Only in recent months, Uzbekistan received the delegations of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, as well as the provinces of Shandong, Shanxi, Jiangsu, and Jiangxi.
The particular emphasis was placed on stimulating cultural, humanitarian and educational exchanges.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: