seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6777
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6777
title: Address by H.E. Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev,  President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, at One belt One road third international forum
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Address by H.E. Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev,  President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, at One belt One road third international forum
18.10.2023
Distinguished Mr. Guterres!
Distinguished Mr. Han Zheng!
Esteemed heads of delegations!
Ladies and gentlemen!
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the President of the People’s Republic of China H.E. Mr. Xi Jinping for the invitation to attend the Third International Forum “One Belt One Road” and for the extended warm welcome.
I would also to echo the words of appreciation to our Chinese friends and all participants of the event on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the
Belt and Road Initiative.
In a short historical period, the ambitious idea of reviving the Great Silk Road has gained many supporters and turned into a new model of international cooperation.
It has evolved into a relevant, inclusive, and open platform of engagement in achieving common progress and prosperity.
The role and significance of this program become ever-more relevant under the current conditions of geopolitical instability caused by the crisis of trust among world powers.
I would like to particularly underline that Uzbekistan, as China’s comprehensive strategic partner, was among the first to support the Belt and Road Initiative. We are firmly committed to further promoting its main goals and objectives.
Dear participants of the forum!
We believe that China’s “Green Silk Road” initiative is in fact shaping the agenda for a common green future.
It is deeply symbolic that this idea was first expressed by the President of the People’s Republic of China H.E. Mr. Xi Jinping in 2016 in our country.
I should emphasize that Uzbekistan and the entire Central Asia are among the most vulnerable regions of the world in terms of climate change impacts.
Currently, the countries of our region are facing the serious challenges of global warming and disturbance of the ecological balance, manifested in the following:
- abnormal weather conditions;
- intensified droughts and dust storms,
- rapid land degradation and desertification, loss of biodiversity.
I will give just one example - many years of observations show that today, the average increase in air temperature in Central Asia is twice as high as the global average.
We are implementing a large-scale program to create an Environmental Innovation and Technology Zone in the Aral Sea region as provided by a special resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly.
Uzbekistan also highly appreciates and hopes for the practical implementation of the outcomes of the Climate Ambition Summit initiated by the United Nations Secretary-General in September, 2023.
In 2024, we intend to hold the Samarkand International Climate Forum to discuss and combine the efforts in achieving the goals of "green" development in Central Asia.
We expect that this forum will be a practical step towards establishing the "Samarkand Dialogue for the Future" to address the global challenges of sustainable development.
Dear participants of the summit!
Uzbekistan is interested in developing broad international cooperation as part of the "Green Silk Road".
In this regard, I would like to share our vision for further deepening of mutually beneficial partnerships with China and other participants of the Belt and Road Initiative.
First,
in order to enhance the coordination of our joint efforts, we advocate for linking the conceptual initiatives of the "Green Agenda of Central Asia" and the "Green Silk Road".
We propose the development of a comprehensive Green Development Program for the practical implementation of key objectives:
1. Green transformation and digitization of economic sectors;
2. Creation of sustainable infrastructure in the transport and energy sectors;
3. Establishment of green industrial capacities;
4. Poverty reduction and "smart" agriculture.
Second,
we emphasize the importance of broadening practical cooperation in advancing “green” production chains and innovations.
We are ready to interact with the leading Chinese companies and involve other international partners in establishing a Special Technological Demonstration Park in the Aral Sea region. This park will focus on executing industrial and socially significant initiatives through the broad implementation of “green” technologies.
Third,
we support China's initiative on the “Green Investment Principles of the Belt and Road” and intend to participate in its promotion.
We propose to establish a "Green Financing Fund" in Uzbekistan, which will serve as an effective tool to mobilize financial resources for the development of a low-carbon economy and clean technologies. It will also facilitate the implementation of high environmental standards in the region.
Fourth,
we call on the countries participating in the Belt and Road Initiative to reduce restrictions and barriers in the mutual trade of "green" goods, especially agricultural products.
Fifth,
we consider it important to intensify the dialog on the transition to green energy and hold regular meetings of Ministers of Belt and Road Initiative countries.
We are convinced that it will facilitate the development of coordinated approaches to expanding the international renewable energy agenda.
Sixth,
we propose to launch a scientific and information platform for the transfer of "green" knowledge and solutions on the basis of the International Innovation Center for the Aral Sea region.
Seventh,
we advocate for developing a Joint Training and Academic Exchange Program in the field of "green" development and ecology on the basis of the Central Asian University of Environmental Studies and Climate Change.
We believe the leading universities and educational centers in China and other member countries of the Belt and Road could be our partners in this work.
Finally,
we believe that the transition to "green" development is impossible without promoting in society of traditional values of careful attitude to natural resources and the environment.
In this regard, we propose to launch a Global Green Culture Development Program as part of One Belt One Road Initiative and provide for the following activities:
- ethno-ecological festivals,
- forums,
- presentations and events with the participation of well-known public figures, representatives of science, business and culture in our countries.
Dear heads of delegations!
Ladies and gentlemen!
As a wise Chinese proverb goes,
"The happiness of the next century is built in this century".
Today, by consolidating and increasing our efforts, we are laying a solid foundation for a "green" future of mankind.
I am confident that the outcomes of our meeting, as well as the ideas and proposals voiced today will become a common real contribution to achieving this noble goal.
I wish every success to all participants!
Thank you for your attention.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: