seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6778
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/6778
title: President of Uzbekistan Calls for International Unity in 'Green' Silk Road
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
President of Uzbekistan Calls for International Unity in 'Green' Silk Road
18.10.2023
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev attended the opening ceremony of the Third Belt and Road International Forum and its plenary session on the topic of "Joint Construction of the 'Green' Silk Road for the Harmonious Coexistence of Humanity and Nature" on October 18 in Beijing.
The Summit, moderated by Vice President of the People's Republic of China Han Zheng, was also attended by the Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres, heads of state and government and leaders of financial institutions.
In his speech, the Head of our state sincerely congratulated all the participants of the event on the tenth anniversary of the "Belt and Road" Initiative.
It is noted that over a short period, this grand idea of reviving the Great Silk Road has gained numerous supporters, becoming a new model of international cooperation. Uzbekistan, as a comprehensive strategic partner of China, was among the first to support the "Belt and Road" Initiative. Uzbekistan has expressed a firm commitment to further advancing its main goals and objectives.
The President of our country emphasized that the "Green" Silk Road Initiative essentially shapes the agenda for a common "green" future. Uzbekistan fully supports this initiative, which was first proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping in our country in 2016.
Pointing out the complex ecological situation in the region, manifested by abnormal weather conditions, droughts, dust storms, land degradation, desertification, and loss of biodiversity, the Head of our state stated that Central Asia is becoming one of the most vulnerable regions to the consequences of climate change.
It is noted that Uzbekistan is implementing a comprehensive program to establish an Ecological Innovation and Technology Zone in the Aral Sea region within the framework of the adopted special resolution of the United Nations General Assembly.
In this context, a high assessment is given to the outcomes of the Climate Change Summit held in September of this year, initiated by the United Nations Secretary-General. The Summit addressed ambitious climate-related tasks.
To facilitate the exchange of views and unite efforts in achieving the goals of "green" development in Central Asia, the President of Uzbekistan has put forward the initiative to hold the Samarkand International Climate Forum in 2024.
"We hope that this Forum will be a practical step towards creating the 'Samarkand Dialogue for the Sake of the Future' to find answers to the global threats of sustainable development," stated the President of our country.
There is an expressed interest in developing broad international cooperation within the framework of the "Green" Silk Road. In this regard, the Leader of Uzbekistan shared his vision for further deepening partnerships with China and other participants of the "Belt and Road" Initiative.
As part of the alignment of conceptual initiatives -- the "Green Agenda of Central Asia" and the "Green Silk Road", it has been proposed to develop a comprehensive "green" development program. This program would include measures and projects for the "green" transformation and digitalization of economic sectors, the creation of sustainable infrastructure in the transportation and energy sectors, the establishment of "green" industrial capacities, poverty reduction, and the development of smart agriculture.
Another important task in the construction of the "Green" Silk Road is the development of "green" production chains and innovations. There is a readiness expressed to create a Special Demonstration Technopark in the Aral Sea region jointly with leading Chinese companies and other international partners. This Techno Park aims to promote industrial and socially significant programs based on the widespread adoption of "green" technologies.
The Head of our state has proposed the establishment of the "Green Financing Fund" in Uzbekistan to support the development of a low-carbon economy and "clean" technologies, as well as the implementation of high environmental standards in the region.
The Leader of Uzbekistan has also called for the reduction of restrictions and barriers in mutual trade of "green" goods, especially agricultural products. Additionally, it has been proposed to intensify the dialogue on transitioning to "green" energy and to hold regular meetings of ministers from the countries participating in the "Belt and Road" initiative.
The President of Uzbekistan has put forward the initiative to create a scientific and information platform for the transfer of "green" knowledge and solutions based on the International Innovation Center of the Aral Sea region.
Given the growing shortage of skilled professionals in the field of "green" development and ecology, the Leader of our country has advocated for the development of a Program for Training Specialists and the enhancement of academic exchanges in the field of "green" development and ecology. This program would be based at the Central Asian University for Environmental Studies and Climate Change, in collaboration with leading foreign universities and educational centers.
Furthermore, the Head of our state emphasized the importance of responsible stewardship of natural resources and the environment. It has been proposed to launch a Global Program for the Development of "Green" Culture within the "Belt and Road" initiative. This program would involve organizing ethno-ecological festivals, forums, presentations, and other events featuring prominent public figures, scientists, business leaders, and cultural representatives.
In conclusion, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev expressed confidence that the fruitful results of the Forum would make a significant contribution to the collective effort of building a "green" future for humanity.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: