seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/8232
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/8232
title: President of Uzbekistan puts forward initiatives for expanding multifaceted cooperation with China
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
President of Uzbekistan puts forward initiatives for expanding multifaceted cooperation with China
17.06.2025
On June 17 President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in the second “Central Asia – China” summit in the city of Astana.
An event chaired by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, was also attended by the President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping, President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov, President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon and President of Turkmenistan Serdar Berdimuhamedov.
According to the agenda prospects of expanding mutually beneficial cooperation between the countries of Central Asia and China in priority areas, topical international and regional issues were reviewed.
In the beginning of his speech President of Uzbekistan particularly noted the role of the President of China Xi Jinping in strengthening friendship and cooperation with Central Asian states, supporting sustainable development of the region through implementing concrete projects and programs.
The major progress in interaction in the “Central Asia – China” format after the first summit in the city of Xi'an in 2023 was noted with satisfaction.
Particularly, a secretariat was established, effective meeting mechanisms of ministers and experts are in force, regulatory base of full-scale cooperation is being formed.
Trade turnover of Central Asian states with China is growing, which will reach $100 billion this year according to estimations.
In our view, the development of cooperation in this format is facilitated, on the one hand, by the processes of profound transformation in Central Asia itself, which has turned into a space of trust, good-neighborliness and partnership. On the other hand, it is the unwavering commitment of the Chinese leadership to the development of friendly relations with neighboring states and the promotion of the global concept of the “Belt and Road”
, - said the Head of our state.
Afterwards the Leader of Uzbekistan presented his vision of further development of regional cooperation.
Firstly, it was mentioned that the current meeting is being held in the conditions of worsening of the international situation.
The increasing competition leads to escalation of tensions, arising of new challenges and obstacles to security and sustainable development.
We consider unjustified and inadmissible the use of forceful methods to resolve controversial international issues and conflict problems,
- emphasized the President. -
I am convinced that all disputes and disagreements should be resolved exclusively through diplomatic efforts - at the negotiating table, on the basis of the principle of respect for sovereignty, norms of international law and the Charter of the United Nations
In this regard it’s been pointed to the historical significance of adopting in the course of the summit a Treaty on eternal good neighborliness, friendship and cooperation, which will become a joint contribution to ensuring regional stability. To develop this Treaty it was proposed to work out a Concept of long-term partnership with specific mechanisms and projects.
As mentioned the Head of our state, trade, investment and technological partnership with China is a major locomotive in implementing strategies of socio-economic development of all Central Asian countries.
It was highlighted that convergence of the increasing potential of the region’s countries and the industrial leadership of China will enable the establishment of Common space of huge opportunities with effective mechanisms of knowledge exchange and technology transfer.
The soonest adoption of the Program of new economic partnership and establishing an Interregional council for trade and investments at the level of deputy Prime ministers could become practical steps in this direction. Readiness of the Uzbek side was expressed to hold the first meeting of the Council by the end of the current year.
In order to stimulate trade ties President of Uzbekistan advocated for organizing a multilateral trade platform “Electronic Silk road” in the framework of “Digital Belt and Road”.
The demand for creating a Regional center of industrial standardization and certification in Tashkent for interfacing standards and frameworks, certification of export products by Chinese requirements, was mentioned.
It was proposed to adopt a separate “road map” for technology transfer, involving business, leading research institutes and engineering centers.
The Leader of Uzbekistan separately noted the necessity to intensify industrial and infrastructure interconnectedness to effectively utilize economic potential. In this regard, it was proposed to develop a long-term strategy “Industrial and infrastructure belt “Central Asia – China”.
It involves creation of a system of interconnected industrial clusters, techno-parks and logistic hubs with attraction of Chinese investments, technological and scientific solutions.
The issues of interfacing the energy systems of Central Asian countries and China, including the implementation of the megaproject for the construction of a high-voltage power transmission line, also require careful study.
The issue of introducing effective financial instruments capable of supporting major projects of regional significance is of particular relevance.
The current international mechanisms undoubtedly play an important role, but they do not fully cover the region's investment needs. According to experts, the deficit of capital investments in the infrastructural development of Central Asia amounts to hundreds of billions of dollars
, - said the Uzbek leader.
In this respect, it was proposed to consider the possibility of establishing the “Central Asia-China” Development Fund, which could become an effective platform for promoting infrastructure initiatives.
The development of transport interconnectivity between Central Asia and China has been identified as another priority.
It was noted that the launch of construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railroad is an important element of the new system of transport and transit communications in the Eurasian space. At the same time, the implementation of the Trans-Afghan railway project will open up even wider opportunities.
In the interest of developing a common vision of prospects in this strategic area, I believe it is necessary to instruct our transport agencies to form expert groups to conduct field studies, explore opportunities for modernizing logistics infrastructure and implement pilot projects of cargo transportation along alternative corridors
, - suggested the Leader of Uzbekistan.
Based on the results of the work of these groups, specific and substantiated proposals for the formation of a unified map of transport corridors and modern transit infrastructure should be developed by the next summit.
Pointing to the serious challenges of climate change for sustainable development, the Head of our state urged to accelerate the adoption of the Green Development Program until 2030, as well as establish the Ecological Alliance for dialogue and partnership in combating desertification, restoring degraded lands, enhancing bio-ecological sustainability in arid and desert zones.
I would like to emphasize the opportunities for cooperation in the field of artificial intelligence and digital technologies. It is these areas that today act as drivers of long-term growth, determining the competitiveness of national economies
, - said the President of our country.
In order to form a sustainable digital infrastructure of economic interaction it was proposed to create a Network of mutually integrated big data banks and processing centers, as well as construct a Digital track of fiber optic connection line "Central Asia – China” along the main energy and transport routes.
Our invaluable asset is the mutual commitment to enrichment of cultures and bringing our people together. It is for these means that the Mutual Travel Facilitation Initiative and the Cultural and Humanitarian Action Program, currently under way, are directed
, - mentioned the President.
To further strengthen cooperation in this area, it was proposed to create a single digital portal “Cultural Heritage of the Silk Road”, uniting historical and cultural resources of Central Asian countries and China, with its access to researchers, students, tourists and representatives of the creative industry.
The relevance of forming a common scientific and educational platform through the development of a program of cooperation in the field of professional education, holding forums of university rectors, meetings of heads of academies of sciences and research centers, was also pointed.
Cooperation in the field of security remains among the key priorities. In this regard, the President advocated the establishment of multilateral mechanisms for the exchange of information through special services and security councils in the fight against terrorism, extremism, radicalism, drug trafficking, illegal migration and cybercrime.
The decline in the international community's attention to the problems of Afghanistan, which for us is not just a neighbor, but an integral part of the common historical, cultural and economic space, is of serious concern
, - said the Uzbek leader.
Noting the rich experience of interaction between China and Central Asian states with Afghanistan, the President of Uzbekistan proposed to establish within the current format a High-level group to consider issues of assistance to the reconstruction and involvement of this country in regional integration processes.
The readiness was affirmed to hold its meeting in the city of Termez with participation of Afghanistan’s representatives.
Concluding the speech it was underlined that Uzbekistan is committed to an open dialogue, expanding pragmatic and mutually beneficial cooperation in the “Central Asia – China” format.
As a result of the summit, the heads of state signed Astana declaration and a Treaty on eternal good neighborliness, friendship and cooperation.
A solid package of intergovernmental and interagency documents was also adopted.
In the end of the summit, a ceremony of launching centers for combating poverty, diversification, interaction in the field of education, as well as cooperation platforms for uninterrupted trade, took place.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: