seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/8448
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/8448
title: President of Uzbekistan identifies priorities of deepening multifaceted cooperation in the framework of SCO
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
President of Uzbekistan identifies priorities of deepening multifaceted cooperation in the framework of SCO
01.09.2025
On September 1, President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in a regular meeting of the Council of heads of member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization held in Tianjin.
The event, chaired by President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping, was also attended by President of the Republic of Belarus Aleksandr Lukashenko, Prime Minister of the Republic of India Narendra Modi, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Masoud Pezeshkian, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov, Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Shehbaz Sharif, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon, as well as SCO secretary general Nurlan Yermekbayev and director of the Executive Committee of the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure of the Organization Ularbek Sharsheyev.
In accordance with the agenda, the prospects for further deepening multilateral cooperation within the SCO and improving the organization's activities were discussed, and an open exchange of views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda took place.
Giving the floor to the Head of our state, President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping congratulated President Shavkat Mirziyoyev and the people of Uzbekistan on Independence Day.
He particularly emphasized that under the leadership of the President, Uzbekistan is developing at a rapid pace, the life of the people has improved, and the Chinese side sincerely rejoices in these successes.
Welcoming the participants of the meeting, the leader of Uzbekistan highly appreciated China's chairmanship of the SCO and congratulated those present on the 80th anniversary of the Great Victory in World War II, as well as thanked the heads of delegations of SCO member states for their warm congratulations and sincere wishes on the occasion of the Independence Day of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
The leader of our country stressed that the current summit is taking place in conditions of global uncertainty.
A systemic crisis of trust, the escalation of conflicts, the weakening of multilateral institutions, and the fragmentation of the world trade system are undermining the foundations of the international architecture of security and stability.
In such conditions, mutual understanding and solidarity among SCO member states is not just a valuable asset, but the key to preserving peace in our vast region
, - said the leader of Uzbekistan.
With a view to further enhance multilateral cooperation within the SCO, the leader of Uzbekistan drew attention to the following.
First of all, the importance of improving the organization's efficiency, its institutions, and mechanisms for implementing decisions was emphasized. Confidence was expressed that the process of transforming the organization launched at the Samarkand summit would contribute to solving these tasks.
The Head of State spoke in favor of the consistent expansion of the SCO, the inclusion of new states in its membership, including countries from other regions, which will contribute to the transformation of the organization into a platform for cooperation with the states of the Global South.
Cooperation in the field of security was identified as one of the key priorities of the SCO.
Today, there is a growing need for coordinated approaches and new mechanisms to build trust and ensure security
, - underlined the President of Uzbekistan.
In this context, the head of Uzbekistan called for the adoption of the SCO Declaration on strengthening multilateral partnership for nuclear security, which will become a solid foundation for the development of peaceful nuclear energy and response to emergencies, as well as an important contribution to the global non-proliferation regime under the auspices of the United Nations.
To effectively counter cross-border threats, it was proposed to resume the work of the Meeting of ministers of internal affairs and public security, revise the provisions of the Agreement on cooperation in combating crime, and develop a Program to combat drug addiction until 2030.
The leader of Uzbekistan supported the resumption of the work of the “SCO-Afghanistan” Contact group, one of whose main tasks could be to develop proposals for the development of constructive dialogue and support for socio-economic projects in Afghanistan.
Against the backdrop of current trends in the global economy, priority is given to expanding trade and economic cooperation.
We stand for the formation of a sustainable model of economic cooperation in our vast region
, - said the Head of our state.
In this context, the importance of signing the Agreement on trade procedures simplification and the early implementation of effective financial support instruments for regional industrial and infrastructure projects was noted.
In order to develop reliable production and logistics chains and stimulate mutual investment, it was proposed to create a number of new multilateral platforms and instruments to support cooperation within the SCO, such as a Regional center for critical materials, an Energy consortium, a Network of venture companies and funds to support start-ups and innovative projects, and a Special electronic portal for establishing business contacts and promoting investment, with the involvement of the regions.
The Head of our state paid special attention to unlocking the transport and transit potential of the North-South and East-West lines, developing corridors in the southern direction, running through Central Asia, with access to the ports of the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean.
Considerable opportunities were identified for coordinating efforts to form a “SCO common transport space” and link it to the Belt and Road strategic initiative. It was proposed to develop a concept providing for the creation of new multimodal networks, digital platforms, and “green” corridors.
In the context of expanding the SCO partnership in the field of green transformation, the need to launch a regional platform on climate change adaptation, decarbonisation and the introduction of artificial intelligence technologies for forecasting environmental risks was noted.
The key factor in long-term partnership within the SCO is the further deepening of cultural ties and the strengthening of the institution of "people's diplomacy"
, - emphasized the President of Uzbekistan.
He noted that the International Festival of Folk Art, creation of an online campus for the SCO University partner network, and organization of annual competitions and Olympiads among students and young professionals in innovative fields could give a powerful impetus to the development of humanitarian exchanges and further rapprochement between our peoples.
It was also proposed to work on such promising projects as the launch of the “Tourism Corridor” and the SCO Medical Tourism Alliance.
In conclusion, the Head of our state congratulated the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov on assuming the chairmanship of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The President of the People's Republic of China, Xi Jinping, expressed his gratitude to the Head of our state for the important initiatives put forward in his speech and stressed the importance of their joint implementation.
Following the meeting, a document signing ceremony was held. In particular, the Tianjin Declaration, the SCO development strategy until 2035, and a package of important multilateral documents aimed at further strengthening partnership in various areas of cooperation were adopted.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: