seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/498
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/498
title: Belt and Road Forum kicks off in Beijing
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Belt and Road Forum kicks off in Beijing
13.05.2017
The «One Belt, One Road» international forum kicked off in Beijing. ​
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in the official opening ceremony of the forum.
The «One Belt, One Road» project, the main initiator of which has been China, envisages forming and promoting new models of international cooperation and development, as well as further strengthening the existing mechanisms of bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
Uzbekistan’s participation has a very important significance for the project. Our country, located in the centre of the Great Silk Road, since ancient times has had an important place in consolidating international trade-economic and cultural ties.
The main goal of the ongoing forum is to promote and continue the development trends on the route of the Great Silk Road, to develop new mechanisms of economic cooperation, to stimulate economic progress of the involved states, to reinforce cultural ties among different civilisations as well as to promote peace and sustainable development.
Today our country attaches a special attention to mutually beneficial cooperation with all countries. A partnership within the frameworks of the “One Belt, One Road” project plays an important role.
The competitiveness of the products, manufactured in our country and the demand for them in the world markets have been increasing as a result of the ongoing initiatives of President Shavkat Mirziyoyev on consistent reforms on modernization and diversification of industrial spheres, development of small business and private entrepreneurship, supporting exports. The “One Belt, One Road” project, aimed at further developing trade-economic cooperation between the countries of the Great Silk Road, has an important significance in developing and demonstrating economic capabilities of Uzbekistan.
The Heads of State and governments of around 30 countries, as well as representatives of almost 130 nations are taking part in the forum. The UN Secretary General, the President of the World Bank, representatives of other authoritative international organizations are also participating.
President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping opened the forum. He conveyed a gratitude to all Heads of State, taking part in the forum, spoke about the significance, goals and tasks of this project.
The «One Belt, One Road» initiative will allow the involved states to fully utilise their capacities, mutually enrich their economies, stimulate trade and investments, create wide conditions for further development of cooperation.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: