seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/1775
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/1775
title: Practical proposals for development of trade relations in the SCO space are forwarded
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Practical proposals for development of trade relations in the SCO space are forwarded
10.06.2018
On June 10, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev participated in the negotiations of the SCO Summit in an expanded format.
Shavkat Mirziyoyev forwarded important initiatives on improvement of activities of the SCO, development of trade and transport relations, and strengthening security.
“Since the beginning of this year, the volume of trade between Uzbekistan and the SCO states, observers and partners has grown by more than a third. And this is not the limit of our capabilities.
In our opinion, it is important to simplify the procedures for export-import operations in order to ensure further growth in trade turnover.
We also support the formation of agro-industrial clusters based on the principles of public-private partnership and expansion of “green corridors” network in supply of agricultural products”, said the President of Uzbekistan.
The need for effectively using the transport and transit potential of the SCO space, relevance of implementing interregional transport projects within the framework of “One Belt, One Road” initiative was noted.
It was emphasized that Uzbekistan supports the construction of Mazar-i-Sharif – Herat, China – Kyrgyzstan – Uzbekistan railway lines, as well as development of trans-regional corridors of Central Asia – Persian Gulf, North – South and East – West.
The President of Uzbekistan expressed his proposals on the issues of joint implementation of innovative programs and projects in the fields of high technologies, digital economy, alternative energy and modern medicine.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: