seed_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/2763
final_url: https://president.uz/en/lists/view/2763
title: Sincere congratulations from foreign leaders
date: 
via: requests
http_status: 200
content_type: text/html; charset=utf-8
note: ok

President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Eng
Ўзб
O‘zb
Рус
View
Font size
Increase by
Sincere congratulations from foreign leaders
24.07.2019
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev has been receiving birthday greetings from the heads of foreign states, governments and international organizations.
In their letters the foreign leaders note the key role of the head of our state in spearheading extensive reforms in Uzbekistan designed to cardinally increase the level and quality of life of the population, bolster the country’s standing in the international arena. The messages also contain expression of heartfelt wishes for peace and prosperity to the multiethnic people of Uzbekistan.
His Excellency
Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev,
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Dear Shavkat Miromonovich,
Please accept my sincere congratulations on Your birthday.
You are rightfully enjoying high esteem among compatriots and abroad as an experienced and far-sighted statesman who is doing much for the economic and social development of Uzbekistan. It is difficult to overestimate Your personal contribution to the consolidation of the strategic partnership and alliance relations between our two nations.
I will be glad to continue our constructive dialogue and close collaboration. I am confident that Your forthcoming visit to Russia will serve for furthering the mutually advantageous bilateral cooperation in all fields for the benefit of our fraternal peoples.
From my soul I wish You, dear Shavkat Miromonovich, a sound health, happiness, well-being and every success.
Respectfully,
Vladimir Putin
President of the Russian Federation
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Shavkat Mirziyoyev
Your Excellency Mr. President,
Let me express sincere congratulations and best wishes on the occasion of Your birthday.
Lately, Sino-Uzbek relations of comprehensive strategic partnership have demonstrated a favorable development trend, namely, the political mutual trust is constantly being strengthened, the joint construction of “One Belt, One Road” is in progress, the humanitarian ties and interaction between our two countries in regional and international affairs are intensified.
Earlier this April, we held a fruitful meeting on the margins of the Second Forum of International Cooperation “One Belt, One Road” in the city of Beijing, which afforded a new impetus to bilateral relations. I pay great attention to the development of Sino-Uzbek relations, highly value the robust friendship that has developed between us and am ready to work with You to achieve new results of multifaceted cooperation for the good of our two countries and peoples.
I wish You good health and new successes at a responsible government post.
Xi Jinping,
President of the People’s Republic of China
Congratulations also sent:
Nursultan Nazarbayev, the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – Elbasy;
Kasym-Zhomart Tokayev, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Sooronbai Zheenbekov, President of the Kyrgyz Republic;
Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of Tajikistan;
Gurbanguly Berdymuhamedov, President of Turkmenistan;
Alexander Lukashenko, President of the Republic of Belarus;
Ilham Aliyev, President of the Republic of Azerbaijan;
Igor Dodon, President of the Republic of Moldova;
Armen Sarkissian, President of the Republic of Armenia;
Moon Jae-In, President of the Republic of Korea;
Joko Widodo, President of the Republic of Indonesia;
Hassan Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran;
Valentina Matvienko, Chairperson of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation;
Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister of the Russian Federation;
Nikol Pashinyan, Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia;
Sergey Lebedev, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the CIS Executive Secretary.
Greeting letters keep coming.
President
of the Republic of Uzbekistan
When using materials reference to www.president.uz is required
© 2026 Official web-site of the President of Uzbekistan
All rights reserved
President
Status
Biography
Honors
Events
Meetings
Visits to the regions
Visits abroad
Visits to Uzbekistan
Speeches
Greetings
Documents
Decrees
Resolutions
Orders
Development strategy
Initiatives
Administration
About the Administration
Management
Subordinate organizations
media library
Photogallery
Video gallery
Contacts
Attention! If you find an error in the text, select it and press Ctrl + Enter to notify the administration
Development: